["The same thing happening in the new replaced phone also I feel disappointed it's not worth for the money. It's hanging a lot in phone application. I am getting irritated when I am try to make a call. I need to wait for 30 to 40 seconds in that to most of the time it closing automatically showing phone is not responding. I didn't expect this from one plus. Totally waste product...\n", "Everything is best except the thing that one plus hasn't provided headphones with handset..n even cleaning cloth is not there...only one transparent cover case is available..phone doesn't have headphones jack n hence it should have provided headphones..mine is mirror Black..\n", '\xa0Do watch the video. M very disappointed with the product\n', 'Worth every buck.Finally one plus has involved and presented a better shaped handset.- Amazing display quality and the curved edged display.- Best in class camera.- Better battery life and charging.\n', 'Waste of money this time one plus 7 pro heavy weight not disply gud compare to samsung, also inbuilt screen guard getting with bubles and in youtube show wireless headphone and 2 axtra cover with phone but not recived this time really waste of money\n', 'Awesome device, and hats off to amazon for such speedy delivery.I ordered it on 16th May 12PM and it got delivered by 17th May 10AMAnd so far I m absolutely loving this device, buttery smooth and blazing fast. But its a bit big, afterall 6.7 inches is quite a number and super slippery if used without the case.And I am awestruck by the speed it charges. 😍\n', 'This phone has a hanging issue. Nd ur customer care says they can send d technician on 25th. Its like  i hv spent 53000 nd still i cant use a phone.\n', 'No 4G direct video call!! What a mess! Clearly over priced. Display is stunning. Performance stunning. Average battery backup. Over hiped device as usual!! Worst RAM management! Only 2GB RAM is free out of 8GB in most optimized state with all the back ground applications are closed. Next upgrade should solve the RAM management problem and Direct 4G video call feature. Camera is good but not ground breaking at this price tag and as hyped by the company.\n', 'just bought oneplus 7 prowas exploring itsaved both of my thumbs as fingerprint but the phone opened with my right index fingerprintwhat the hell is this\n', 'I am giving 1 star for poor camera quality .The camera is bad than my oneplus 3.Its not able to focus correctly and the final image is blurry.I discovered the issue when clicking a pic of a document.The text was not sharp and all and after doing some more testing with 3rd party apps , and going thru Oneplus Forum, found that many people are facing this same issue.Oneplus should fix this issue, else this would be like OP 2\n', "I was waiting for this now when i have this in my hands it's just awesome, super design, perfect camera like all models of one plus.A phone from flagship killer to flagship.If anyone really looking to have feel of premium phone then go for it.It's been two days i am using this phone and all good till now, battery, display, speed, sound everything is perfect.\n", 'OnePlus 7pro the best mobile iam using more than 20 mobiles but this mobile is great performance camera performance is the best screen quality is very impressive thanks OnePlus and Amazon ones again\n', "OnePlus 6T was among the fastest Android ever and this time OnePlus has truly gone beyond speed to make one of the best phones of 2019.Pros-1. Display. The major pro is the damn smooth 90 Hz refresh rate along with QHD+ screen. It's as smooth as a butter!2. Ram Boost - The phone learns your behaviour like which apps you use most and accordingly allocates ram towards it making the phone even faster.3. Speed. Nothing to say about this. It's blazing fast.4. Warp charging. The phone gets charged upto 50% in about half an hour and completely in about 75 minutes.5. Completely stoked with the battery after a heavy usage of 9.5 hour screen time with playing games for 2 hours and using Netflix for 7 hours in a single charge.Cons-1. Including camera here for the time being until a major update comes our and improves the camera firmware. As of now, not a flagship camera by miles.2. Lack of IP rating, not that it matters to me. The phone's tested enough in water.3. Lack of wireless charging. Again, not felt as a con because of warp charging, but still.Conclusion: If you can wait for a while for the camera to be improved and don't mind the above cons, definitely go for it. Nebula Blue is a beauty!\n", 'I\'ve been using the phone for a week now and the only thing I hate about this phone is the camera. Dear OnePlus, please sort out this asap. The camera is not what you expect for the price and the image processing is "bitter" this time.Except for that single thing, This phone is the snappiest one yet released in 2019 and they have done no compromise with the display. The 90Hz display is just mind-blowing and I can guarantee you that once you get adjusted to those curved sides of the display, you won\'t take your eyes off it.Then there are some minor bugs which will be sorted out later on with updates. The phone feels great in the hands even though people claims it to be a bit heavier than other flagships. But I personally love the feel of the phone in my hands, it\'s just a solid feel. The buttons are placed perfectly in this phone, you won\'t accidentally hit any buttons on either sides.If you have the money to spend, this is the best choice as of today and if you\'re preferring the best camera phone in a budhet, go for Pixel 3a and if the price is not a problem for you there are several other phones in the market.Don\'t worry about the missing ip rating and the fact that this phone doesn\'t have wireless charging feature, the warp charge doess all justice to you.The fingerprint has improved so much that it\'s almost as fast as a conventional scanner.Yes, you\'re going to miss the face unlock feature. It\'s still there but it\'s not worth your time.So overall, go get this device after keeping this information in mind.There\'s one more thing I noticed in another review here in the Amazon page, that a customer saying that he didn\'t recieve the wireless bullets and two extra cases as seen in many review videos on youtube. Please, those are the review packages that youtubers get to review the phone. The in box contents are clearly given in the description, so please don\'t underrate the phone due to these reasons.Hope you have a great time enjoying this phone. Just go for it.\n', 'Upgraded from my OnePlus 6 just a few days back after using OnePlus 6 for about 10 months or so.Initial observation :1. QHD screen is just gorgeous with 90 Hz refresh rate.2. No notch whatsoever.3. Near Stock Android experience.4. OP is great in pushing updates regularly which is a rare thing even with Samsung\'s flagship phones.Pro\'s :1.  QHD screen is just gorgeous with 90 Hz refresh rate.2. Near Stock Android experience with some very useful features like screen recorder, ability to switch between QHD & FHD+, etc3. Fast Charging (coutsey OPPO\'s VOOC Charge 3).4. Good ROM options.5. ZEN mode to log you out of the smartphone for 20 minutes.6. Full screen without a notch makes video streaming a great experience.7. Apps open fast, really fast.8. Pop Up camera is really fast during face recognition. Many times you may not even notice that the POP UP camera really came out of the slot retracted. It\'s that fast.CON\'s :1. Battery drain gets hampered if you run it in QHD with 90 Hz refresh rate.2. Camera is not up to the mark as compared to OnePlus 6 apart from the options of wide angle. (maybe software update will improve its usability, perticularly while shooting videos in wide angle).3 Camera clicks 12 MP shots in default mode. Night mode is so-so but don\'t compare it with Pixel 3, Pixel 3XL or even with Pixel 3a XL. Pixel is way ahead in terms of resolution perticularly in night mode.4. Day time photos are much better when compared to OnePlus 6 perticularly where good light is not an issue. Photography during "conference" might be tricky. This is where Pixel will overshadow all other smartphones.5. This is a big phone in the territory of a tablet. Handling it might be a bit difficult for some. Single hand use is not advisable.Will update after a few more days of use.UPDATE AFTER A FEW MORE DAYS OF USAGE :Most of the users of OnePlus 7 Pro (as per the reviews) would be happy with budget handset like Redmi or Realme as they are either using OnePlus 7 Pro for the sake of it or to play games. Whether your handset has 2GB RAM free or not has nothing to do with the performance. What makes a difference is the availability of RAM for a perticular task. RAM management is very good like all the previous OnePlus devices.IPhone XS Max also doesn\'t give a headset or even a dongle to use it with 3.5 mm headphone jack but people do buy iPhone without thinking twice. Iphone doesn\'t even give fast charging brick in the box. When people can spend a lack of rupees for a brand why complain about OnePlus 7 Pro.Call quality of OP 7 Pro is good. Even video calling over Whatsapp and Skype is good.It\'s a pleasure using OnePlus 7 Pro for creating Word documents, PPT\'s, Excel Sheets on the go. These apps use a lot of battery and RAM. Adobe Reader is just fluid. RAM management while using these apps and switching between them is just beautiful and seamless.Will update after a few more days......As expected, OnePlus released an update on the general performance and camera issue.Camera quality is quite subjective and uncontrollable since everyone can capture an awful photo in a random scenario. Even though the photo is not quite bad technically, there is always someone giving negative opinion only for the reason that he likes more appealing photo style. Every time when there is a photo sent to us due to negative feedback, our engineers are requested to find the same light condition and object of same color and texture to simulate the photo in order to reproduce the same problem. You can imagine the time and workload needed for fixing every single problem, not to mention the dozens of photos we got from all over the world everyday. We hope you guys could understand and allow us more time keep working on the camera.ONEPLUS COMMUNITY LISTENS....\n', "Bought on 17th May, worked well for a week, since last 2 days ph not functioning properly, getting hanged. irratic response at time. Can't pick up call , apps switching automatically.Never believe this can happen with  such a brand and such high end Mobile.\n", 'Touch is not working properly\n', "Camera quality is normal,Mobile is more weighted in hands,suddenly my call log didn't work properly,night mode does not looks best as well with slowmotion video in low light is worst.battery is better and also the wrap charger doesn't give us wow experience of we are already using dash chargers. Sound is awesome with dual output speakers top and bottom,Mobile finger print sensor is jaw dropping faster.\n", 'There are air bobbles on the screen , request has been placed for return, let see what they would suggest\n', "Amazing phone I have never given reviews about anything on internet but after reading some bad comments insisted me to write one good comment. Guys don't know people are mad or there luck is too bad that they have received some dabba but in one line I can garrentee you .... That u can't find better phone then this. I have used iPhone Samsung Sony Nokia redmi oppo but after using  one plus specially 7 pro I can't think I would buy some other phone.Best of the best\n", '\xa01) No wireless headset provided,2) Very poor slow motion recording.it keeps on flickering even after recording.No support from Amazon team.\n', '\xa0Screen flickering issue 😞\n', 'The phone is great in terms of speed and smoothness but there is no headphone with the phone.- not even an adapter to use my old earphoneAfter spending 50K,I am unable to listen music with my phoneScreen and touch is awesomeSpeed is fastCamera is superbSound quality is good on speakerThere is little problem to listen directly from phone during call as there is full screen instead of earphoneIn this price range we expect it to be bit more - at least a decent earphone should have been added\n', 'Great choice over S10 Plus.Amazing display and smooth experience with 90Hz refresh rate, which can only be experience while using.Battery gives more than 4 Hours of screen time with 90Hz.Superfast charging with WARP charger.Extremely fast and no log switching between apps and playing games.Outstanding camera which clicks quite decent pics in both day and night.Overall best phone from OnePlus till now. Worth purchase with no cons.\n', 'Slightly heavy to carry.. great buy with top of the line specifications.. excellent camera.. found it a bit slower than one plus 6 I used... perhaps improve with updates and AI..\n', "First of all i would like to thank Amazon for delivering the product right on time 5 out of 5.Now coming to the phone - This one is a beauty and the beast all together.Display - 10 out of 10Software - 9/10Build - 9/10Battery - 8/10Camera- 9/10Gaming - 10/10Premiumness - 10/10Value for money - 8/10The best flagship right now in the market.Now what i didn't like1. No earphones provided bcos for 50k phone earphones should y provided.2. A rugged protective case would have been welcome3. No type C converter provided.4. Battery life is average but fast charger makes life easy.\n", 'Worst phone not worth buying. Very bad launched by OnePlus..... Facing ghost issues and Amazon not taking it bay\n', 'There is no filter option in camera, even camera quality is really bad, night light camera is disaster. Phone speed is fine, battery not that strong.\n', "Screen is good. Camera is just ok. Fingerprint scanner is bad. Heating too much. No earphone, no 3.5 adaptor. Overall waste of money. Can't expect such bad performance from one plus. They have started cheating customers. This is not at all a flagship phone\n", "Overall it's a average mobile,, not any special than 6t. I have got a damaged piece.. never expected this from amazon\n", "The same thing happening in the new replaced phone also I feel disappointed it's not worth for the money. It's hanging a lot in phone application. I am getting irritated when I am try to make a call. I need to wait for 30 to 40 seconds in that to most of the time it closing automatically showing phone is not responding. I didn't expect this from one plus. Totally waste product...\n", "Everything is best except the thing that one plus hasn't provided headphones with handset..n even cleaning cloth is not there...only one transparent cover case is available..phone doesn't have headphones jack n hence it should have provided headphones..mine is mirror Black..\n", '\xa0Do watch the video. M very disappointed with the product\n', 'Worth every buck.Finally one plus has involved and presented a better shaped handset.- Amazing display quality and the curved edged display.- Best in class camera.- Better battery life and charging.\n', 'Waste of money this time one plus 7 pro heavy weight not disply gud compare to samsung, also inbuilt screen guard getting with bubles and in youtube show wireless headphone and 2 axtra cover with phone but not recived this time really waste of money\n', 'Awesome device, and hats off to amazon for such speedy delivery.I ordered it on 16th May 12PM and it got delivered by 17th May 10AMAnd so far I m absolutely loving this device, buttery smooth and blazing fast. But its a bit big, afterall 6.7 inches is quite a number and super slippery if used without the case.And I am awestruck by the speed it charges. 😍\n', 'This phone has a hanging issue. Nd ur customer care says they can send d technician on 25th. Its like  i hv spent 53000 nd still i cant use a phone.\n', 'No 4G direct video call!! What a mess! Clearly over priced. Display is stunning. Performance stunning. Average battery backup. Over hiped device as usual!! Worst RAM management! Only 2GB RAM is free out of 8GB in most optimized state with all the back ground applications are closed. Next upgrade should solve the RAM management problem and Direct 4G video call feature. Camera is good but not ground breaking at this price tag and as hyped by the company.\n', 'just bought oneplus 7 prowas exploring itsaved both of my thumbs as fingerprint but the phone opened with my right index fingerprintwhat the hell is this\n', 'I am giving 1 star for poor camera quality .The camera is bad than my oneplus 3.Its not able to focus correctly and the final image is blurry.I discovered the issue when clicking a pic of a document.The text was not sharp and all and after doing some more testing with 3rd party apps , and going thru Oneplus Forum, found that many people are facing this same issue.Oneplus should fix this issue, else this would be like OP 2\n', 'I completely Loved the display quality , sound quality , finger print sensor , Pop up camera, wide angle , 3x zoom and night scape camera. I disappointed a bit by not having a 3.5 mm ear phone jack. Coming to the story of battery life one plus 7 pro is 4000 milliamp which is having 9 hrs 45 minutes battery life where as one plus 6t is 3700 milliamp which is having 10 hrs battery life . I was disappointed with this too. I was totally stunned by the speediness of fingerprint sensor absolutely stunned .  I think everything is fine with the New one plus 7 pro and I am absolutely and delightfully enjoying the experience of New one plus 7 pro . Basically I am a movie lover. I am enjoying the HD movies like I am watching in movie theater. Dolby Atmos sound quality adds this phone to become high priority than others .\n', "An absolute fun loving futuristic Beast phone ever made by OnePlus.Thumbs Up👍:1. Fluid Amoled: Top notch quality display similar to Samsung Dynamic Amoled.2. 90Hz Refresh rate: Butter Smooth experience, Best for gaming! 🎳3. Full screen Display:  There is no distractions like notch or pinch hole camera. Breathtaking 😍 Viewing experience with HDR10+.📺4. Triple Camera Setup: Ultra wide(117°)+ Wide + Telephoto.🎥5. Dolby Atmos: Crystal clear Surround sound 🔊6. Popup Camera: Interesting Camera 📷set up which eliminated notch on Display and it is sturdy.7. World's First phone to have UFS 3.0.Thumbs Down:👎1: I felt like screen is too big, it could have been between 6.3 - 6.4 instead of 6.67 inch.2.  Price: I had to pay Rs.16000💰 more Just for full screen Display (UHD+, 90Hz+ Bezelless), 300mAh more battery and for an Extra Telephoto camera.3. Little bit thicker & hefty: 206grams🏋️ compared to OnePlus7 weighing about 182grams.Will update my detailed review on OnePlus 7pro after One Month of usage.\n", 'SO this phone is probably the best Android phone till date and even better than ios ehen it comes to camera and speed❤️I HAVE BEEN USING THIS PHONE FROM PAST 2 DAYS FOLLOWING ARE THE PROS-1)NO LAG IN GAMING2) ULTIMATELY FAST CHARGING3) THE EDGES ON SCREEN GIVE PREMIUM FEELING4) DUAL SPEAKERS ARE SERIOUSLY USEFUL5) THE TOUCH AND DISPLAY IS VERY SMOOTH6) CAMERA IS A BEAST BOTH FRONT AND BACK CAMERAFOLLOWING ARE CONS-NONE XD AS A CONCLUSION--THE SPEED IS UNMATCHABLE-IN HAND FEEL IS VERY PREMIUM-CAMERA WILL NOT LET YOU DOWN-WARP CHARGING IS VERY QUICKHOPE THIS HELPS🙂❤️\n', "Definitely worth every single Penny spent on it. The display and performance are absolutely mind blowing. Camera may not be the best but it's still top class. The phone isn't as big as people would think it is. It's actually pretty sleek and feels nice in the hands as it isn't very broad. The battery performance is commendable given the 90hz refresh rate and the QHD display. Would easily last a day on normal usage. Although, Heavy users would require around half an hour of charging. Warp charge is super fast, you won't even realise how quickly your phone charges after you plug it in. Oxygen works buttery smooth and as a first time user of this UI, I'm liking it quite a lot. Gaming is wonderful too, absolutely smooth, beautiful and lag free. The accompanying phone cover is good too, it just gets smudged by finger prints though. As someone who watched reviews of different phones and was well versed with what I was buying, I'm enjoying every second of using this phone.Most of the reviewers here are complaining about not receiving headphones and extra covers and a screen guard with bubbles, it's absolutely absurd. You should atleast look over what you're buying first thoroughly, and any reasonable man would have easily found out what he's get in the box and what he's not getting. These illiterate people buy stuff without knowing anything and then expect candies in the damn box and when they don't get it, write negative reviews which influence other queer buyers. It's highly unfortunate.For all those looking for the best performing Device available right now, go for it, if you can compromise with the headphone jack (get a 3.5mm to c type cable and problem solved). Everything from the looks and feel to the performance of the phone is amazing. You'll feel that you're holding a flagship masterpiece every second you're holding this phone. It's easily the best phone in it's price range hands down.\n", "Battery is a weak.. Needs to charge twice a dayAnd apps also keep crashing... In between...Thr is a bug in which lock screen ambient light won't work sumtimes\n", "Didn't received Bluetooth headphone and car charger with mobile. As it was told in the launch event that one plus seven will give both these products with package.\n", "Neither a flagship phone nor a flagship killer. It's an expensive joke..  Mi note 5 pro camera is far far better than this idot box.  48 MP camera is a joke.  The tech reviewers gave biased reviews. Don't even try to compare with MI note 7 pro 48MP setup.  Nothing in the product will amaze you,  you will end up with a huge disappointment... Ram management is pathetic,  battery is below average.  Go for google pixel rather than this.\n", "I didn't believe the reviewers. I bought the phone. And now I don't like any other phones except OnePlus 7 Pro.90Hz - It's madness. Imagine this - Drinking alcohol is injurious to health, but if you drink it you'll feel good. Right? 90Hz would give you the best smartphone experience, but it drains some more battery compared to 60Hz. Moderate drinking is perfectly fine; charging the phone 2 times a day is fine too. (I'm a heavy user)Warp charger - Charges the phone at remarkable speeds. If you're a previous OnePlus user, you won't find much of a difference.Camera - Definitely the best, in accordance with pricing.Everything else - as accurate as in the product description.My favorite retarded reviews :*Someone was upset that he couldn't find a 'OnePlus backpack' and a 'OnePlus water bottle' in the package.*Someone was upset that he found an air bubble under the phone's screen guard.\n", "Big issue with touchscreen..when I try n write it starts video call on wattsapp.. I am trying to write a review the page is closing automatically. After spending 50k if you face such issues, it's disappointing.. I don't know if this issue is because I ordered from Amazon.. I will not recommend this phone to anyone.. I want to return this n want a good phone in working condition or else my refund.\n", "Very disappointed with the product performance and battery life. It's taking more than an hour for full charge in switch off mode and also drains of in just 8 hours. The very new phone started hanging. Is this is what expected from one plus. I need a replace for this phone\n", "I was waiting for this now when i have this in my hands it's just awesome, super design, perfect camera like all models of one plus.A phone from flagship killer to flagship.If anyone really looking to have feel of premium phone then go for it.It's been two days i am using this phone and all good till now, battery, display, speed, sound everything is perfect.\n", 'OnePlus 7pro the best mobile iam using more than 20 mobiles but this mobile is great performance camera performance is the best screen quality is very impressive thanks OnePlus and Amazon ones again\n', "OnePlus 6T was among the fastest Android ever and this time OnePlus has truly gone beyond speed to make one of the best phones of 2019.Pros-1. Display. The major pro is the damn smooth 90 Hz refresh rate along with QHD+ screen. It's as smooth as a butter!2. Ram Boost - The phone learns your behaviour like which apps you use most and accordingly allocates ram towards it making the phone even faster.3. Speed. Nothing to say about this. It's blazing fast.4. Warp charging. The phone gets charged upto 50% in about half an hour and completely in about 75 minutes.5. Completely stoked with the battery after a heavy usage of 9.5 hour screen time with playing games for 2 hours and using Netflix for 7 hours in a single charge.Cons-1. Including camera here for the time being until a major update comes our and improves the camera firmware. As of now, not a flagship camera by miles.2. Lack of IP rating, not that it matters to me. The phone's tested enough in water.3. Lack of wireless charging. Again, not felt as a con because of warp charging, but still.Conclusion: If you can wait for a while for the camera to be improved and don't mind the above cons, definitely go for it. Nebula Blue is a beauty!\n", 'I\'ve been using the phone for a week now and the only thing I hate about this phone is the camera. Dear OnePlus, please sort out this asap. The camera is not what you expect for the price and the image processing is "bitter" this time.Except for that single thing, This phone is the snappiest one yet released in 2019 and they have done no compromise with the display. The 90Hz display is just mind-blowing and I can guarantee you that once you get adjusted to those curved sides of the display, you won\'t take your eyes off it.Then there are some minor bugs which will be sorted out later on with updates. The phone feels great in the hands even though people claims it to be a bit heavier than other flagships. But I personally love the feel of the phone in my hands, it\'s just a solid feel. The buttons are placed perfectly in this phone, you won\'t accidentally hit any buttons on either sides.If you have the money to spend, this is the best choice as of today and if you\'re preferring the best camera phone in a budhet, go for Pixel 3a and if the price is not a problem for you there are several other phones in the market.Don\'t worry about the missing ip rating and the fact that this phone doesn\'t have wireless charging feature, the warp charge doess all justice to you.The fingerprint has improved so much that it\'s almost as fast as a conventional scanner.Yes, you\'re going to miss the face unlock feature. It\'s still there but it\'s not worth your time.So overall, go get this device after keeping this information in mind.There\'s one more thing I noticed in another review here in the Amazon page, that a customer saying that he didn\'t recieve the wireless bullets and two extra cases as seen in many review videos on youtube. Please, those are the review packages that youtubers get to review the phone. The in box contents are clearly given in the description, so please don\'t underrate the phone due to these reasons.Hope you have a great time enjoying this phone. Just go for it.\n', 'Upgraded from my OnePlus 6 just a few days back after using OnePlus 6 for about 10 months or so.Initial observation :1. QHD screen is just gorgeous with 90 Hz refresh rate.2. No notch whatsoever.3. Near Stock Android experience.4. OP is great in pushing updates regularly which is a rare thing even with Samsung\'s flagship phones.Pro\'s :1.  QHD screen is just gorgeous with 90 Hz refresh rate.2. Near Stock Android experience with some very useful features like screen recorder, ability to switch between QHD & FHD+, etc3. Fast Charging (coutsey OPPO\'s VOOC Charge 3).4. Good ROM options.5. ZEN mode to log you out of the smartphone for 20 minutes.6. Full screen without a notch makes video streaming a great experience.7. Apps open fast, really fast.8. Pop Up camera is really fast during face recognition. Many times you may not even notice that the POP UP camera really came out of the slot retracted. It\'s that fast.CON\'s :1. Battery drain gets hampered if you run it in QHD with 90 Hz refresh rate.2. Camera is not up to the mark as compared to OnePlus 6 apart from the options of wide angle. (maybe software update will improve its usability, perticularly while shooting videos in wide angle).3 Camera clicks 12 MP shots in default mode. Night mode is so-so but don\'t compare it with Pixel 3, Pixel 3XL or even with Pixel 3a XL. Pixel is way ahead in terms of resolution perticularly in night mode.4. Day time photos are much better when compared to OnePlus 6 perticularly where good light is not an issue. Photography during "conference" might be tricky. This is where Pixel will overshadow all other smartphones.5. This is a big phone in the territory of a tablet. Handling it might be a bit difficult for some. Single hand use is not advisable.Will update after a few more days of use.UPDATE AFTER A FEW MORE DAYS OF USAGE :Most of the users of OnePlus 7 Pro (as per the reviews) would be happy with budget handset like Redmi or Realme as they are either using OnePlus 7 Pro for the sake of it or to play games. Whether your handset has 2GB RAM free or not has nothing to do with the performance. What makes a difference is the availability of RAM for a perticular task. RAM management is very good like all the previous OnePlus devices.IPhone XS Max also doesn\'t give a headset or even a dongle to use it with 3.5 mm headphone jack but people do buy iPhone without thinking twice. Iphone doesn\'t even give fast charging brick in the box. When people can spend a lack of rupees for a brand why complain about OnePlus 7 Pro.Call quality of OP 7 Pro is good. Even video calling over Whatsapp and Skype is good.It\'s a pleasure using OnePlus 7 Pro for creating Word documents, PPT\'s, Excel Sheets on the go. These apps use a lot of battery and RAM. Adobe Reader is just fluid. RAM management while using these apps and switching between them is just beautiful and seamless.Will update after a few more days......As expected, OnePlus released an update on the general performance and camera issue.Camera quality is quite subjective and uncontrollable since everyone can capture an awful photo in a random scenario. Even though the photo is not quite bad technically, there is always someone giving negative opinion only for the reason that he likes more appealing photo style. Every time when there is a photo sent to us due to negative feedback, our engineers are requested to find the same light condition and object of same color and texture to simulate the photo in order to reproduce the same problem. You can imagine the time and workload needed for fixing every single problem, not to mention the dozens of photos we got from all over the world everyday. We hope you guys could understand and allow us more time keep working on the camera.ONEPLUS COMMUNITY LISTENS....\n', "Bought on 17th May, worked well for a week, since last 2 days ph not functioning properly, getting hanged. irratic response at time. Can't pick up call , apps switching automatically.Never believe this can happen with  such a brand and such high end Mobile.\n", 'Touch is not working properly\n', "Camera quality is normal,Mobile is more weighted in hands,suddenly my call log didn't work properly,night mode does not looks best as well with slowmotion video in low light is worst.battery is better and also the wrap charger doesn't give us wow experience of we are already using dash chargers. Sound is awesome with dual output speakers top and bottom,Mobile finger print sensor is jaw dropping faster.\n", 'There are air bobbles on the screen , request has been placed for return, let see what they would suggest\n', "Amazing phone I have never given reviews about anything on internet but after reading some bad comments insisted me to write one good comment. Guys don't know people are mad or there luck is too bad that they have received some dabba but in one line I can garrentee you .... That u can't find better phone then this. I have used iPhone Samsung Sony Nokia redmi oppo but after using  one plus specially 7 pro I can't think I would buy some other phone.Best of the best\n", 'Review after a week of using:Display:It\'s as good as it gets. Super AMOLED with 90Hz refresh rate. The colours are vivid and contents are crisp, also, with the video enhancement ratio turned on, the contrast ratio is really kicking in. However, you do not get a Samsung or Apple level display but at this price point, this is a steal.Display Rating - 9/10.Sound:Dolby Atmos gives you the stereo sound that OnePlus has promised and it makes you feel immersed in whatever video you\'re watching or game you\'re playing with addition to the full screen display. However, it\'s not the best sound I\'ve heard on a phone, but it\'s much better than a lot of phones. And also, it doesn\'t have "equal" amplitude of sound coming out of both speakers. The bottom one is more powerful, probably because it\'s the main speaker for ringtones. Overall, it\'s a good speaker for normal users, for audiophiles - not so great.Sound rating - 8/10Camera:When I first turned the camera on, my mind was blown, probably because of the cheerleading effect of the high quality AMOLED display, but even so, it put up competition with devices that took photo with Google Camera Mod or even the Google Pixel\'s camera as well. In some cases it was great, in some it was lacking. Overall, the dynamic range is great but not the best. The colours are more true to life, and in the normal / auto camera mode it offers an image of size 12MP. True 48MP images can be taken with the pro mode, and if you can set your camera up properly, you can take amazing photos of the milky way and stars, so it\'s a powerful camera. The Ultra-Wide camera needs some work done as the details look washed out on the pictures taken Ultra-Wide angle lens. The telephoto lens does its job well up to 3x zoom, but it does produce a tad bit of noise. And the night mode is especially good, it preserves the highlights and details and also lightens up the shadows during very challenging conditions. Amazing night mode. And as for selfies, yes, it\'s amazing, offering upto 16MP including the precise edge detection in portrait mode of both the back and front, the cameras are great. The OnePlus 7 Pro offers video recording of upto 4K 60FPS which is great and offers slow mo video of upto 240fps in 720p. However, there was a really annoying little problem, which was shutter lag, that\'s probably because of the software and I hope OnePlus improves that. Otherwise some pictures might be ruined because of it. Overall the camera is decent, and not the best.Camera Rating: 8/10Fingerprint Scanner: Even though it\'s an optical image fingerprint sensor in the age of newly invented ultrasonic fingerprint scanner, it\'s fast. Not as much as the physical ones but it\'s definitely the fastest optical fingerprint sensor I\'ve ever used. And the animation looks cool.Fingerprint scanner rating: 9/10UI: OxygenOS is the best UI you can get from a company. It is definitely smooth, fast and easy to use and doesn\'t look like a bootleg Android and at least it doesn\'t annoy people with bloatwares and advertisements in the utility apps. It has a lot of features and is highly customizable.UI Rating: 10/10Build: As much sexy as it looks, the OnePlus 7 Pro is fragile if it falls from your hands. Although glass looks premium and feels premium, I\'d rather prefer a metal aluminium body. However, with the addition of curved display, a mechanical camera and the glass back, I\'m in love with the design. It is definitely one of it\'s major selling points. The only other con is the lack of headphone jack, but it would have been consider if OnePlus would have at least included a pair of type-C headphones or at least a type-C to 3.5mm headphone jack converter. Keep up the good work, OnePlus!Build rating: 8/10Hardware: The OnePlus 7 Pro rocks a Snapdragon 855 chipset with Adreno 640, and everything you run on this device from games to Antutu 3D benchmarks, everything runs as smooth as butter with no fps drop or stuttering whatsoever, and doesn\'t heat up very much as well. However it still doesn\'t surpass a lot of phones if you match the scores.Hardware rating: 9/10In the Box content: In the box you get a 30W Warp Charge supported charging block with cool red type C cable to charge your phone, a flexible rubber case which is a good addition, some papers with a letter from Pete Lau but unfortunately not type-C to 3.5mm headphone jack adapter or type-C headphones. Huge disappointment.In the Box contents rating: 7/10So overall, we can conclude the OnePlus 7 Pro is a fantastic device but the price could have been at least 3K INR less, even after considering the lack of headphones or the converter, and to retain its title of "Flagship Killer". Unfortunately, OnePlus has lost it.Overall Rating: 8.5/10\n', 'Everything was cool but felt missing abt in box accessories could have provided type c to 3.5mm converter along in the box\n', 'late Sound problem while pubg  using wireless earphonesNot problem in one plus 6t..\n', "Hi Team,I would like to bring this to your attention that the warp charger is charging really slow and not at all upto the mark. I am not sure if it has been changed during delivery or it was packaged like that. Although I am really happy with the phone's performance and battery life however the charger is not upto the mark. I charged my phone with my sister's dash charger and it charged my phone almost 3 times faster than warp charger.If possible, please pass it to the oneplus team or look into the delivery process.Thanks & Regards,Sahban khan\n", "Okay, so I will get straight to the pros and cons of this phone. I upgraded from 6T and let me share how well it stood up to my expectations in almost every aspect. My review will contain overall and a camparison with 6T.Pros1. Best display ever in a smartphone no doubt. 90hzQuad HD+ display seriously spoila you to an extent that you no longer wish to go back to 60hz.2. Build quality is purely flagship. It looks way beautiful than one plus 6T and it does feels super premium.3. Stereo speakers are a game changer. Loud and crisp noise as compared to one plus 6T and is definitely a demanding feature in a flagship.4. 30 watt WARP charge is a cherry on top. I had no complaint with Dash charge and it makes my experience even more better with Warp charge.5. Camera is very good as compared to one plus 6T and trust me, it won't let you down. Camera on 6T was just a crap.6. You don't have to even consider about performance as you know what one plus is famous for.7. I love the new vibration Moto and heptic feedback.Cons1. Battery backup is fine. For me it last for a day but considering the display, yes it may not perform well up to expectations of some people but trust me it's absolutely fine for a normal day usage.P.S. : for some peoywho are complaining that display color is not good as compared to s10+. Here is one suggestion guys. Just go to settings and adjust the display colors to AMOLED wide gamut. I can assure that the color accuracy will be exactly the same as that of s10+. I compared them side by side and found them exactly the same.Thanks and have a nice time with your One Plus 7 pro\n", 'Battery life is worst , worst.Worst\n', 'My wait for this phone is finally over. Received the phone in good condition. OnePlus7 pro has a Beautiful large screen resolution, great camera and incredible processor speed... Also a bigger battery backup with warp charge.\n', 'Amazing job OnePlus ..... An excellent phone with no bezels and the amazing screen that is smooth to work with .....Amazon thanks for delivering my phone overnight as that was some speedy work ..\n', "Settings are not working quick gestures features are not working ambient display features not workingFor replace no appointments are available  according to warp charger phone doesn't gets charged in 20minutes\n", "I was an apple fanboy since 2007. I had used every iPhone that got released in the market till iPhone X (not iPhone XS).  Since I got bored with the same OS for so many number of years, one fine day I decided to try android (keeping aside my ethical reservations about it, since it was an stolen OS as per late Steve Jobs)  and bought an Android AMOLED Phone (to test whether I can thrive on android eco system) which had an on screen finger print scanner.  Strangely, I started liking that android phone  since it had an iOS feel and used it for more  than 6 months.By then I was quite confident that I can rely on an android phone without any regrets and started looking for a flagship phone that can match to iPhone, in terms of Overall User Experience. While Galaxy S10 was one of the obvious choice, I was some how not happy with it(may be due to Apple Vs Samsung Long term dispute) , but  then  the OPP7 got released. :-)I waited and bought 12GB RAM+256GB Storage Phone on Amazon. Before I bought this phone I had read through many reviews online and got really worried about issues posted about this phone,  like ghost display, Mediocre Camera, bad call quality etc etc. Also many reviews for this phone on the  Amazon ltself was not good.  Still I stuck to my decision of buying this phone and let me tell you that I am extremely proud of my decision.Once I got this phone then it simply turned out to be an outstanding phone and completely changed my perceptions about stock android experience. Now I would want to say that it is one of the best phones in the market. While there are many good features as well few shortfalls on this phone,  end of the day the overall user experience is something that I liked utmost.My key take aways about the phone are- I am awestruck with the edge to edge, QHD AMOLED Display with 90 Hz refresh rates and the curved display. You can view everything at  best on this phone.- 12 Gigs RAM keeps the phone blazing fast on all the games I downloaded, of course Snapdragon 855 is an extremely efficient CPU.- Camera: While this was one of the concerns reported utmost by all in the reviews, with the latest software update I would want to say that I could make great photographs with both  48 pixel normal camera as well as with the pop-up Front facing camera. I simply loved the pictures I took on this phone and I am quite confident that it matches to the quality of iPXs Max even at the low light conditions (ensure for latest software updates). The 4k Video captures are great delight.- Warp charge: Can't belive that it took less than hour to charge my phone from less than 5 to 100 %. I have to say Kudos.- Oxygen OS: Simply minimalistic, yet very beautiful. One Plus team has paid every attention to the detail in building this OS. All my need for using a Gesture based OS is completely taken care.- Speakers: Great Stereo speaker alignment with Dolby Atmos experience. While it sounds great, I would want to say that it is not the best audio experience. However there are no regrets.- Build Quality: Overall build quality is absolute wonderful. I loved that buttery touch whether on the screen or on the back.- Weight: That 206 gm of weight in the hand made me to feel that it is a worthy and reliable phone and not just another one of the bunch in the market.- Pre-applied screen guard: Very Happy about it. At least it is not tamper prone out of box. Same logic for the free case that ensures that my device is safe, atleast initially.- Size: While I have seen many complaints about the giagantic size of this phone, my take on it is that it is simply fine. After all for the greater user experience we do need a good screen size phone.- Notifications: Let me tell you that I am extremely particular about the efficiency of notifications from SMS and Whatsapp messages. While my earlier android phone is not efficient as iPhone in this aspect, OP7P had ensured this to me. Very greatful!!Area of Improvements- Battery life: Unless we are concious about managing battery life, it may not lost long especially with the 90 Hz screen refresh rates- No Wireless Charging: Personally I damn care about it. I never used that feature in my iPhone X. But still a drawback.- No Headphone: Exactly same as above. Something not worry much with many bluetooth headphone options. I have paired my Airpod and it works simply great.- No IP Rating: I am very much sure that this phone is splash resistant as well  water resistant for minimal time and I am extremely happy with it. After all I am not a professional swimmer with the intent to use this phone underwater. (with all due respect to the swimmmers)Few aspects about my purchase from Amazon:- Concept of guaranteed price for phones from Amazon was very useful for me. I exchanged my recently bought first android phone and got a good value for exchange- Interest free EMI and discount on my SBI card made me to feel happy- Almost same day delivery of the phone. What else I can ask for.Finally I would want to say that I am not paid by any one (especially by OPO) to write this review but it is an honest user experience by a tech enthusiast.  Still, for any questions, please feel free to write a reply to this post and I will try to respond it asap.\n", "It's worth the price. Yeah camera performance should be improved. Battery life for 90 Hertz refresh rate is not bad. Fingerprint sensor is faster than 6T.What I observed from people rating is they are disappointed because OnePlus didn't include type-c to 3.5mm cable and earphones because of high price.I think because of customers disappointment rating going down. OnePlus should think on it and should get back customers satisfaction.Overall phone performance will never disappoint you. Should include basic accessories to satisfy the customers.\n", '#Stunned #Awesome# Super thrilledApril 2014.. The One plus silently entered the market and making a small ripples ..No one ever expected that it sweeps as Tsunami. I still remember the day when I bought the One Plus One. Happily showing to people about the greatest product . Sadly at that time no one aware about the phone but now we all know who is the real beastSlowly and steadily the brand was reaching all over .The word “The Flagship Killer” literally killing the people all over. No one ever expected that it will capture the market just like that.From One plus we had more market players all were trying to reach the level of One Plus sadly the truth no one reached to it and still it holds the position.After One Plus one I was like missing the opportunity of moving to the next phone.. But my One Plus one was scoring so good so I didn’t feel for the next one..Time moves.. Used other products so called copycat of the Flag Ship Killer phones none were like my One Plus one. Something or other was missing.Now I don’t want to lose the opportunity so I banged on the first day and booked the “ The Real Flagship Killer” One Plus 7 Pro 8GB 256 storage.Now my Beast in Power on Mode and will Unleash soon… Will come back soon with my next review of Pictures and Performance and all ..\n', "Today I received the parcel intact.The parcel contained only the phone and it's charger.There was no ear phone, operation manual,I find in a youtube regarding one plus 7 box containing earphone, operating manual,two type of mob.cover.(color choice).I would like to know the reason for the missing item.Please respond.\n", "Firstly, it's a review after 2 days of use. And what's not to like about this phone.If you're here then you already know the specs and I don't need to reiterate it. Its a beast, a killer phone.Things you'll love:1. Best camera performance.2. Amazing display (90 hz refresh rate and probably the brightest screen in the market)3. Super fast speed.4. Stereo speakers.5. Warp charge is amazingly fast (0 to 100% in 1 hr)6. An AnTuTu score of 367202. Beating 93% of all other phones out there.7. Price (at this price range you can't find a premium phone like this one)Things you'll miss:1. 3.5mm jack2. Battery performance (max 6 hr screen on time) but with the warp charge battery never bothers me.That's it.You will love every bit of it.\n", "No doubt regarding the phone's performance. However, the pre-applied screen protector is filled with bubbles and dust particles and seems like someone unprofessional has been applying these! I request you to please look into it and provide me with a possible solution as it has totally ruined the experience of owning a flagship and getting this kind of service!\n", "\xa0I got this phone on 3rd June and just within a week's time I am facing battery related issues.Do not rush into buying this phone, wait for a while more and ask other OnePlus users if they are facing the same issues.  Maybe I got a defected piece . They even refused for a replacement. All they did was a 5 minute video check where in if the phone battery drops then 5% they replace else they dont.Just go through the video and you shall understand the entire scenario.Feel as if 50k wasted.\n", "Awesome product. Bought it despite of all criticism. Happy with my decision. When you are a tough competitor than people starts hating you, that's common. Display and performance are the benchmarks. Camera too is doing well with the latest updates, that's what i love most about the OnePlus, they listen to their community and keep you updated from all bugs. It's not light weight so if you are a skinny guy then forget about it or else go for it. Best phone under 50k. If you found it helpful then no need to smash the like button, you just go for this beast. Peace out\n", 'Bang for buck phone n a rel flagship killerPros:1. Great built quality, which matches with other premium flagships in the market2. Best part is its display. Large 6.7 inch mesmerising oled display, with gorilla 5 glass n notch free design. Beauty to watch3. Loud n crystal clear speakers4. Fast warp charging5. Super fast performance with latest snapdragon 855 processor, faster ROM, n largee RAM optionsCons:1. Little on heavier side to hold at 200 grams2. No 3.5 earphone Jack, USB C to 3.5 adaptor n earphones not provided despite this high price pointBattery will last over a day with moderate use, and at FHD+ it will last even more. Camera is good, if not the best.For this phone, Pros clearly win over the cons. Go for it\n', "Writing this review after completely understanding this masterpiece. Transforming from IOs to Android was a cakewalk for me thanks to my OnePlus 3T. Even today after almost 3 years of its use I saw no lag issues, no issues with the battery and instant rapid charging which was the really the most important plus point for me.This Version of OnePlus is surely a masterpiece. Be it the speed, the battery backup, rapid WARP charging, Be it the huge screen and yes the premium look makes it a worth buy. It's been 2 days I own it and everyone who looks at it is amazed to see how perfectly everything is compiled to make this masterpiece. The camera is amazing with three modes as described during the launch with an amazing picture quality.  The music with stereo sound and Dolby Atmos  makes it so much full of life..  The only Cons you can find with this device is the absence of Water resistant label. Rest it is BEYOND PERFECTION.\n", 'Powerfully conceived and surely is a great upgrade for those replacing a phone after 2+ years. Processor is great, audio is loud and clear. Price is on the higher end but a worthy deal for people intense on email, social media and fast communication. Miss the 3.5mm jack or the in case wired headset but battery and display makes it up. Had it been, wireless charging could have taken this far further but love the warp charging. Fast fingerprint recognition and selfie camera allows decent face recognition. Oneplus has greatly enhanced the Android underneath. Worthy call if you need speed & quality.\n', "I had purchased one Plus 7 pro 8 GB Almond color from Amazon based on a friend's suggestion but totally regret the purchase. I'm a new user for One Plus & previously owned Apple, Vivo,Letv, Coolpad, Samsung, Honor, Motorola,Xolo,etc.,never experienced such an awkward performance in those mobile's. Spending half a Lakh Indian rupees on this mobile the File manager videos file's takes time to load in order to open the same, While on call second call gets answered automatically, Both front & Back camera clarity are not up to the mark & there are lots of other issues while using the mobile I'm not at all happy using this device & feel like exploited for buying a premium range mobile with a basic mobile's performance. Need a solution for the same at the earliest.\n", "Ok first let me tell you something. All the negative reviews are before the OTA update. So if you are wondering whether to buy it or not, don't think again. This mobile is a beast.Pro'sTop class displayNo notchesVery Good battery. Getting 7.5 hrs SOT with 90hz+ QHDStereo Speakerssplash resistantOxygen OS (I am sure it will go till Android 12)Super fast indisplay Finger print scannerCon'sNo headphone jack. Not even converter provided. I thought there will be one.Pretty Okish Camera. Hoping for some good OTA updates.No LED notification lightFinally Camera to Api is enabled. So install Gcam and it will do wonders.\n", "This is my first phone in the premium category and I'm glad I went ahead with investing those extra 20000 rupees for a phone. 12 GB of RAM will look after every thing that you can ever ask of a phone. I had no idea of what difference a screen of 90Hz refresh rate or 60Hz meant. But after using this phone and having seen my friend's 6T I can say that a 90 Hz screen is so buttery smooth that it spoils you. Fingerprint scanner has gotten better with every touch. Battery performance isn't too great but it does charge lighting quick. The curved screen and the Fluid Amoled Display just packs that final punch.It's not always we think of going for a 50k+ phone and if you're thinking of upgrading your phone and have the budget, go for OP7Pro without any apprehensions.Edit: I'm no pro photograper but the camera seems to be better with additional features after the Android 10 update.\n", 'Good phone. - Review after usage for a week.Best Full screen display i have used till now. Soo smooth(90hz refresh rate is a killer one).Camera is pretty good than the other mid-range phones (15 to 25k).Battery performance is nice. got full day(morning 9am to night 11pm) battery with single charge. (Since it is a new phone im spending more time with it, still battery is preforming nicely. im getting up to 7 hrs for screen usage time, with regular usage of whatsapp, instagram, facebook, insthorts, camera, photos, google news, Pubg(2 rounds), youtube (up to 30 mins), phones call of upto 20 mins) - Refresh rate - 90hz.\n', 'I always have avoided oneplus so far just because how they call themselves flagship killer but yet miss on so many items, but with pro version oneplus has upped the game this year giving a tough competition to all the other flagships put there.Pros at a glance1. Worlds first phone with UFS 3.0, the phone is stupendously fast.2. QHD Screen with 90hz refresh rate, a very first on oneplus device. Once you get used to 90hz display all the other phones will be a joke in terms of scrolling performance.3. Great camera. Camera is great , though not to the level of many other flagships its great and there will gcam mods which will improve the quality.4. Stereo Speakers, again a very first on oneplus device, excellent quality.5. SD855 onboard.6. Warp Charge at 30W is sufficient enough to compensate the battery performance with 90hz displayCons at a glance1. No headphone jack.2. No type C to 3.5mm cable atleast.3. The phone is heavy.4. No OTG adapter.\n', 'I was littlebit sceptical after reading some genera and negative reviews about it on the amazon as well as on YouTube...but after i used for 2 days ...i am loving it... camera has gone better after latest update ...and.....and this thing is pure Butter. Go for it....Best in its  class....not regretting a penny in 49k i spent....no issues yet\n', 'Ordered the phone on 16th.In love with the phone!THANK YOU AMAZON FOR SPEEDY DELIVERY. GOT IT DELIVERED AT 6:30 AM NEXT DAY!!!Yes it is little bulky and huge but i dont think any phone having more than 6 inch screen can be used by single hand.I have comparitively large hands and still 5.5 inch screen handling was difficult.Charging and phone Speed is Blazing fast. And display is beautiful and buttery smooth. Dont think any phone has this smooth touch!It lived to all my expectations and was worth the wait.My friend used my phone for a while and bought one for himself too!Highly recommend the phone to people looking for flagship phone.Remember, it is flagship phone with amazing hardware and features and hence the price. :-)\n', "S10(+) vs OP7Pro.. I chose this since it's superior in the OS, Warp charge, SD855 gaming and few more. It also matches up with its OLED display to the major flagships out there. Battery life looks good on my device atleast, Charges blazing fast. UI with this display is buttery smooth. These pop up cameras are fun and sturdy. Fingerprint reader feels faster over the OP6t. Camera quality is not up to the DXO mark, but would be improved by software updates which are seamless on 1+ devices\n", "Loved it. But it has its own pros n cons. Best screen ever, with Dolby stereo speaker really awesome performance while playing games like pub g and call of duty. I have been using since two weeks now never felt a lag. But price is too high. It doesn't have notification light, no 3.5mm headphone jack,  battery drains fast. but it last for 1day. And having a warp charger it cahrge the device very fast.\n", 'Two days as of now, simply best resolution yiu can get, will get a feeling of using 2phones, damn similar to s9plus edge.Well done ome plus. Camera has been improved , and yeass Nebula blue is the sexiest and the most unique color u will see.Feature wise, as they have mentioned its completly worthy.Just a upsetting about the potrait rear camera, hope they solve in update.\n', "I am very happy with the product. But what's the meaning of phone without headphone jack or connector. If we are buying the phone of 50000, the company cant even provide us the connector for earphone? I would suggest not to go for this phone until and unless they have a solution for this. Before buying this phone just think why didn't they provide Type C earphone or connector. If we are spending more than 30K on any phone. We expect all accessories for the same.\n", 'Feels very premium to hold and the 90 hz refresh rate is just too good.. feel like its a bit over priced.. and for those who expected 2 cases and wireless earphones, its a special review package which is clearly told by the presenter.. there is no earphone or even 3.5 mm earphone adapter which should be bought from after market.. All the functions of the phone works like a breeze.. no issues so far.. overall its a good phone..\n', "The OnePlus 7 pro is a large phone at 6.7 inches. It is heavier than you'd expect and is a little difficult to use single handedly. The bezel less screen sometimes makes it hard to use gesture navigation. Besides this there is literally nothing to complain about. The phone is incredibly fast, the display is incredibly satisfying, the camera is great even if it isn't the absolute best, and the UI is brilliant.Recommend to anyone looking for a phone in this price range if one handed use is not a big concern.\n", "Great phone and awesome performance.. Tested it with all kind of games and applications... Now without wasting any time I would like to share pros and cons :Cons-1. Average battery life (6 hrs SOT)2. Average camera quality (improved with the latest update)3. Dust magnet. I have covered Op7 pro with in box cover and also tried ringke cover but dust is all over the phone. Pop up camera also covered in dust.4. Side curves aren't the best thing in this mobile.5. Fingerprint sensor is not so good and responded in 2 3 attempts.Pros -1. Fantastic performer.2. Awesome screen. Loved the 90hz thing. Very quick in response.3. Nightscape mode is awesome after update. Compared with s10+ and difference are unimaginable. Op7 pro's images are better and clearer than s10+. You can see the difference of HDR+ images.4. Oxygen os is far better than stock android.5. Stereo speakers are upto the mark. Compared with other dual speakers phone and sound is clear and easily heard in crowded places.6. Using type C bullet earphones with this and get awesome output from device.In the end it is the user liking or disliking about this specific device. Some people impressed with the image quality and some aren't. Some people liked the sound and some referred it as a noise. Build quality is upto the mark. Tried it with water splash and phone is working fine. Pop up camera is not the feature a user can buy this phone for.Although i am using this phone as daily driver and it is the best device in this price range if performance is taken for the benchmark.\n", 'Super display quality, great touch feel,best in camera phone, battery life is ok,rest super mobile overall .But theres only one big caution the discount which Amazon mentioned in terms of (no cost EMI discount) is totally rubbish the cost of mobile is 50999/- we have to pay to them if we choose 6months EMI option we have to pay 8499.93×6=50999.58.Then why mentioned no cost EMI discount and all  it shows the value of one plus 7pro is RS 48979.64 in order summary.who will give this discount of RS 2019,Which Amazon mentioned in order summary.\n', "After switching from Galaxy S7, This phone is an absolute beast and  worth every penny. True flagship phone at an affordable price.Pros :1) Fantastic Display and really enjoyed reading on this phone . 90Hz mode makes scrolling super smooth.2) Super fast charging3) Battery lasts whole day even  with heavy uses4) Oxygen OS is very very smooth without any bloatware5) Snapdragon 855 with  UFS 3.0 storage makes everything very very fast and smooth.Cons :1) Camera performance is not in the same level as Galaxy S10 plus and Iphone XS but couldn't complain at this price point2) Due to its huge size, it is heavy and one-handed operation is sometimes difficult3) No waterproof IP ratingsOverall, absolutely happy with the phone and couldn't ask for better phone at this price .\n", 'First of all thanks for choosing me as ur review handle!!So this phone is for those who have some big hands not for the small hands...[ Overall review of OnePlus 7 Pro ]∆ Advantage• As OnePlus said it\'s truly a bezeless phone!• It\'s "Beyonds the speed"• Nebula Color is Best !!• Camera Is All Good!!• Many thinngs Are Good !!∆ Disadvantage• At price of 53000/- in they should provide Headphone in box!!• It\'s a little Heavy as compare to other smartphone!• No clean Cloth in Box!!∆ Most important points!!• 90 refresh rate is awesome 😍• Battery Backup + Charging is Quick!!• It Some time get a little hot maybe due to temp of 50* Celsius in Jodhpur!!So if u have a budget of 45000/-+ u should go with OnePlus 7 Pro and u will be satisfy at least 4 years!!× Compare ×• OnePlus 7 Pro is much better than Samsung S10+ & IPhone Xr which is much higher as compare to OnePlus in price!!\n', "Just changed over to OP7 pro from hauwei mate 20 pro. Not bcs my mate was bad. But my wife liked it and broke her op 5t.So points I felt1. Make no mistake phone is huge2. Display is stunning. The best.3. Finger print very consistent4.  Camera. Is hit and miss. Sometimes images are stunning. Other wise very cartoony5. Battery is average. Nothing to worry. But nothing to rejoice. Recharging is super fast6. Because of curved display lot of unintentional palm touches.7. Gaming is excellent8.speakers are stunning9. no headphone jack. And it's not gonna come back into any top tier phones. So not an issue.Over all Good. Not as satisfied as my Mate 20 proBcos.1. Mate 20 pro was super to hold it. Slightly smaller almost perfect2. No IR blaster in OP7 pro3. Nightmode is so artificial4. Faceunlock is scary bcs everytime the camera come out it's a small worry somewhere in my mind Even though I know it's good to last5. No IP ratingoxygen OS is very good. But I don't think that's the one reason you should buy it. My friend has k20 pro with Nova launcher and it's almost as fast as my OP7pro.Bottom line .. buy it for display. Buy size s a worry.Buy it for oxygen.. but you can get this performance even with 31k k20 pro with launcher.Buy it for multimedia and gamesNot for camera.You will be satisfied with OP7 pro. No doubt!!!\n", 'The battery life is amazing, i got nearly 9hrs of SOT, performance is top notch, no lag, Dolby Atmos is amazing for the supported content.Camera quality is not up to mark only con from my last 5 days usage.Overall satisfied with the build quality, performance and battery managementUpdate-After the recent update 9.5.7 the camera performance increased drastically. On par with high end phones.\n', "This is my first OnePlus DeviceAnd I can say this is the best phone I have ever used .The 90hz display is amazingI can guarantee once you started using the phone on 90hz you can't go back to lower refresh rate.. you will feel and can see the other phones lagging..Camera is not up to the mark but the latest update improve a lot .. and can be better in next updates..Battery life is good ... Not the best due to higher refresh rate and quad hd resolution.. but if you want good battery life you can do so by changing the screen resolution to full HD+ and the refresh rate to 60hz..The fingerprint is super fast..And the WARP Charge , this is amazing..The phone charges very quickly..Oxygen Os is awsm.. (best os ever)Weight - the phone is a lit bit heavy.. but if you use the case you wont feel it heavy..\n", "Fast and great phoneFast chargingOk camera better in gcam appBattery is not great in 90hz displayYou change to 60hz and battery saver it helpsAnd 90hz display is really great really smoothIt's offering a lot of value for the priceBecause the s10 iPhone are way more expensiveAsus Zenfone 6 and k20 pro all have regular diaplays that's why their cheapThis has a oled (very good )The os is really good better than stock AndroidLot of featuresIf you have the money go for it\n", "I ordered my OnePlus 7 Pro with lot of doubts in mind specially it not being water resistant and camera quality in previous versions.I highly recommend the OnePlus 7pro and writing this review so it might help others .Pro-1) Screen - Best Screen so far on any phone and with 90Hz refresh rate it is best mobile to play games with . I love playing PUBG and Asphalt 9 on Top setting and Result are terrific.2) Portrait Mode - OnePlus has never been the Best Camera device in market but OnePlus7pro has one top notch portrait mode. You will love taking Portrait in this device.3) Speed - With Latest 855 Snapdragon , I never laid hands on such smooth Android device . I can directly compare smoothness to IphoneX on this device.4) Built Quality - OnePlus 7 Pro has very strong built quality which I found very impressive. I did checked out YouTube videos to found its durability and was impressed.5) OxygenOS: With OxygenOS the experience of Android is smooth as silk.Cons :Water Proof : Only reason to not buy this mammoth phone . I was planning Huawei P30 Pro but then we have water proof cases for that purpose.Fingerprint Sensor : It does seems temperamental at times .Headphones : No Headphone Provided with devices and No Headphone Jack . Seriously heavy disappointment.Wireless Charging : Wireless Charging is a show off feature. We all know it's very slow but it does look good to flaunt.Weight : If you don't prefer Heavy phones , let this go . ONEPLUS 7pro is 200 gms and definitely feels heavy . Though I found  myself attracted to heavy phones .Review : If Best camera is priority  and you do tend to take underwater photography seriously, Spend 20K Extra for Huawei P30 Pro.OnePlus 7pro has a great camera , it's 3x zoom and bokeh is awesome . And is a great device , if you are looking for Good Camera , Super Cool Build and Best Performance.Speed is what OnePlus were really always selling here. This time they really went Beyond Speed.\n", "The phone is very good. Two weeks of usage and there is no problems with my unit. Camera is good, not awesome neither aweful as some reviewers advertised. Battery life is good but not great, the best part is the display that can be termed awesome. Overall a good phone to have but there are other alternatives if you are willing to go.Features:1. Flagship processor and built2. Awesome Display3. Good Battery life4. Good Camera performance (didn't expect to be good because of some biased reviews)5. Nebula is the new favourite6. Oxygen Os\n", "I bought this phone only for snapdragon 855 processor and all new 90hz display. I am satisfied with the display and the performance it provides. I don't use camera of any phone so my review will not tell about camera. But as I've seen with this phone camera quality is little bit average I'll say. This phone have some serious issues about the weight balance and absence of 3.5mm jack (adapter is not available also inbox ofcourse they want customers to spend valuable money on there brand). And non availability of 3.5mm adapter on official site is also a problem. Stereo speakers are also soo average.\n", "The phone is worth of money .I have seen on youtube they provide headphones and car dash charger with two extra cover.But i didn't get any of them totally disappointed with one plus team.If they are not giving such things then they should not show such things in their videos along with box .\n", "Product is awesome but delivery was delayed.the first thing you'll notice is that it is blazing fast. The camera pops up everytime for facial unlock which looks a little bothering somehow otherwise this phone is power packed. Battery life will go on for more than a day for me easily with daily chores on my phone as I am not a gamer.\n", "Just an amazing phone... I upgraded from Redmi Y2 and trust me guys...if you are upgrading from some 10-15k phone to this one... you'll surely love this device. The display is the best thing here, 90Hz refresh rate makes it so smooth to swipe... The phone no doubt is blazing fast..no lags or whatever seen till now. Some people were complaining about Ghost Touch or Pop up camera coming out while calling, we'll I haven't seen anything like that till now. These issues are present only on a very small no. of devices, so most probably you won't get a defective one...Dash charging is brilliant. Overall I think you should go for it. Don't see those camera reviews and all....OnePlus is improving them constantly...even I got a camera improvement update too...Soo I think it's the perfect phone under 50k\n", "I have been using OP7 Pro for last 7 days and I found performance of the phone, camera, battery live up to OP expectations until 7th days.  I witnessed a song app is playing music even after I killed all the process. As last step, I restarted the phone and to my surprise phone got stuck at restart for a minute or so without doing anything. After couple of minutes, I see screen going blank and photo just died. It won't start whatever you do. I finally found that this is a happening to many OP7 Pro phones and way to recover is pressing Power and Volume up key.Overall very disappointed . This has made me think if we should even trust and buy any more OP phone at all.I also found that once you purchase a phone through Amazon, it is not easy to return a defective phone. Even if you are still within 10 day return window, you cannot just ask for a replacement for defective phone. You have to spend good amount of time with Amazon customer service who will get a technician to visit you and find all ways not to accept the return which is very disappointing.So, firstly it is good to avoid this model till OP fixes this issue. If you still want to buy it, better buy it from retain stores and not online because you will be stuck with this product even if you don't want to.\n", 'This is my personal review after 2 days of usage and one thing is for sure , that this is the BEST DISPLAY ever, just like said at the event "FAST AND SMOOTH". Watching series/movies is a pleasing experience and hands on to One plus for that.The performance is smooth and amazingly fast as always with OP. They are Masters in this segment.I saw many comments on social media regarding the average battery backup, yes it is true but with WARP CHARGING it doesn\'t really matters. It is more than a balance to me. I won\'t mind burning more battery for a smoother experience which is new and missing with other brands.The biggest drawback I felt is the Camera. The pop up camera has got too much crop and if you open the video then you might end up shooting yourself only. The Rear camera too needs some optimisation which I am sure we will see soon.One thing which I want to bring in notice is the "NIGHTSCAPE" mode in Rear camera, it was working good before the first update and as soon I updated it , the quality went down. Same is with the normal one as well.One thing I felt which should have been given is the Type-C to 3.5mm jack cable, that was indeed missing. Rest everything is just perfect.Overall I will give it "4 stars out of 5". Deducted one because of the camera, was expecting a better one with OP7 pro atleast. I am optimistic that OP will come up with a strong solution soon. 🖖🖖\n', 'First have to give Amazon five stars for delivering this item on promised one-day delivery. Bought this phone as an replacement to my iPhone 6 (128 GB) & Coolpad note 3. My iPhone was draining battery in half a day; running basic call & messaging funcions slower.OnePlus 7 pro is an worthy replacement. My cousin recommended it. She bought for 53,000 approx; I bought for 4,000 RS less. It\'s fast, has edge to edge bigger screen; dual SIM and very long battery life. It runs PUBG as smooth as silk. Most wonderful of all is "Warp Charging". This makes my experience, just awesome.The latest update has changed cool airplane-mode animation (road appearing/disappearing). Loved that animation.The item was out for delivery@3:34PM; called the delivery man but call didn\'t go through; twice. The delivery was attempted @5:40, when no one was home. Delivery man called; I told him to re-attempt any time, same day, anytime 45min-1 Hr later. That\'s when he insisted that I collect from neighbor; I wanted it to collect in person, so I refused. He told me he\'ll deliver the next day; I refused.Through chat then in-app helpline call; was told delivery man was off duty. Then I gave an ultimatum that either the item be re- attempted or order be cancelled. Was ready to bid goodbye Amazon forever; deleting all saved cards, except the one for recovery of payment. Amazon personnel called back & resolved that deliveryman will re-attempt.Amazon really treats it\'s customers like A King. Made my experience with them awesome. This close to decision to never buying anything from Amazon again; this close to Amazon loosing a loyal customer for life. My loyalty to this brand of online shopping, became stronger due to customer- delight attitude of Amazon.Had bought a range of items from Amazon over the years; mostly electronics like headphones from leading brands like Sony, Bose, Sennheiser, etc phones like Coolpad note 3, iPhone 7, iPad 6th gen, Samsung M20, now OnePlus 7 pro. Love you Amazon. You are really A->Z (A through Z). This is the best online shopping experience ever.\n', 'Best budget smartphone in $700 price range. It is true to its class " the flagship killer". Only drawback i could find was that it is too large for single hand use  and battery consumption on daily usage although that can be justified by the presence of a 90hz display. Other than that a solid smartphone , feels premium in the hand with glass back and state of the art pop up selfie camera. I guess oneplus is living up to it\'s name and their motto "Never Settle".\n', "If there's one thing that caught my eye when my colleague bought this phone is the display. It was a stunning 2k+ Quad HD display after all. It then lead me to look for video reviews from the youtube experts. It turns out, they did appreciate the display and phone. It's amongst the best displays on a phone in recent times and it's a Samsung panel.Pros of this phone:1. Ultra smooth beautiful quad hd screen with a 90 Hertz display. It is 6.67 inches in size including the curved edges. It's great for social media,videos which can render in 1440p if available and for reading too. It also does not have a notch and you pretty much love it.2. Battery life with a 4000 MAH battery is great when you consider that you use a 90 Hz refresh vivid qhd screen. Your could switch to 60 Hz but nah. :)3. Back cameras do a good job in capturing pics. An yet to really test them. The front 16 mp pop up camera works well. It's a good camera setup.4. It's got the SD 855 processor and it's butter smooth and fast.5. With the oxygen OS, it delivers near stock Android experience. It will very soon be upgraded to 10.6. Warp charging: it's got crazy fast charging compared to op6 which I have before this and 90% will get your through the day and more.7. The on screen finger print sensor is great to use.Cons:1. It's a heavy phone at 200 grams. You will take a week to get used to it since we all are so adaptive.2. It's got a curved display with curved edges. Accidental Ghost touches do occur from time to time. Also, your need to be careful. If you drop it face down, it will fall on the screen side given its weight and with the curved edges, there is a chance to break.3. With the launch of the OP7t, One plus has diluted the significance of this phone. We Indians are price conscious and the OP 7t costs 7k lower than each of the OP 7 pro models even after prices dropped on the 7 plus pro (OP 7 pro costs 4k lesser than when launched 6 months ago).Update: just found that there's a One Plus 7t Pro launching on October 10th 2019. With it, this will be definitely be the undisputed OP Flagship.4. For the price, no type C to 3.5 mm jack connector in the box, no type C ear phones, no wireless charge, no waterproof certification but you do get a case.Verdict:If you want the great screen, FHD+ 2K+ display, 90 Hz refresh and notch less design, go for the one plus pro. If you want most of what pro has, a balanced phone, some additional features and are ok with the 2k display and notch screen design, go for One plus 7t which is a super budget flagship killer too.\n", "This is my first One Plus phone hence I don't  have a baseline to judge against.Pros:1. Excellent camera quality.2. It's a beauty to look at( P.S: I bought the Nebulae Blue).3. Display is just superb.(The resolution even when set to FHD+ and refresh rate of 60Hz is class leading).4. Snapdragon 855 is the fastest Qualcomm processor as of now so no knit picking in the speed and performance aspect.5. Price is perfect for all that you are getting.6. Selfie cam is better than I expected.Cons:1. The wide angle camera is a huge let down.(I have tried the S10+ wide angle lens setup and it's not comparable with this lens).2. No USB type C to 3.5 mm Jack adapter.( Another huge let down if you are used to getting earphones out of the box.)3. The QHD+ and 90Hz refresh rate drains charge fast and it's pretty obvious.4. At least a splash proof body could have been given at this price ( This is because splash proof displays and IP rated Samsung phones start around the 10 - 20K price range).\n", "Almost a week of use now and I'm loving it from every aspect. It's a flagship phone at a much lesser price than the other brands. Camera quality is superb and even night mode is great (only on the primary cam though, night mode doesn't work well in zoom/tele). It looks stunning, performance is superb and battery life is great even for a heavy user.\n", "Better than Samsung M30,A30,A50,A70,mi note 7pro, poco f1, vivo v15, oppo f11 pro, one plus 6t and all other middle(under INR 30000).Also better than iPhone 7, 7plus, 8, 8 plus, xr and upper middle priced phone(up to INR 60000).Also ignore all other brand phones.Points:1. Camera is excellent, night mode is brilliant2. No lagging at all3. No heating issue4. Comes with warp charger in box, super fast charging5. Front screen is the curved and totally premium look. 6.67in Fluid Amoled Display (2340 x 1440 pixels, HDR10+).6. No bending issue. Solid body.7. Sceen is not bleeding. No problem at all.8. Android pie (v9) with one of the most lightest skin Oxygen OS 9.5.3GM21AA (lots of customizations possible)9. No network issue (mobile network, wifi, screen casting)10. Little bit Slippery back side due to glass body. You can buy back cover for that. Also Silicon cover is come within box, if you like it.11. Popup camera is automatically lowered during free fall. ie. If you are using your phone with front camera poped up, and accidentally you drop you phone, front camera will be automatically goes back inside.12. No bloatwares (only Google apps(can not uninstal), one plus' 3-4apps(some of them can be uninstall) and Netflix(can not uninstall) are pre-Installed.I bought one plus 1 back in 2014. After that no phone attract me to buy it. But finally made my mind to buy this phone. And so far, no regrets at all.Jumping 6 generation(from one plus 1 to one plus 7pro) is fun.Hope you also like this phone.\n", "OnePlus 7 Pro - A Better Phone (As they say)OnePlus has revamped its phone completely. Whether its Screen, Processor, Camera, or even vibration motor.Here is my review for the phone.The Nebula Blue color looks amazing but it will be available from 28th May. So i got the Mirror Grey. Initial impressions are highly impressive. You don't get a phone in the boz. You get a massive screen. A huge 6.7' screen with no notch, no cutout, Just full screen. Viewing media on this beautiful gadget without any restriction is a great feeling.Pros:Quad HD+ Curved Display. Its massive, Its Quad HD, It have 90hz refresh rate, And yeah its beautiful Amoled.Dual Stereo Speaker with Dolby Atmos. Super loud sound clarity.Snapdragon 855. Faster than your blink.Camera. By far the best camera setup of OnePlus. I won't say its better than x y or z bt yeah its a flagship level quality. U can click awesome pictures with good details. Video stabilization is simply amazing as always OnePlusUFS 3.0 - Guys it is a mad thing. It makes the phone superfast. Transferring files like snap.Battery. Its 4000mAh guys. You can easily get 5-6 SOTCons :Its huge. One hand use not possible.Its heavy.No type-c to 3.5mm dongleThat's all.\n", 'Excellent phone. Superb camera, awesome display, superfast fingerprint scanner, butter smoothly OS, superb warp charging...... everything is excellent.\n', 'This phone is very much modified than previous models of OnePlus.Pros: Very fast finger-print sensor, awesome UI, Bigger than bigger display which is awesome!, 4K recording is nice.Cons: Camera quality issue, much weight, heating problem.But overall this phone is the best.\n', "I got my first OnePlus 7 pro after a week it's launched but the Pop up camera not working properly... so I requested Amazon and theyvsent someone for inspection. After that when this defect is confirmed, I got my mobile on 2 nd day.. Thanks Amazon for responding so fast.After one successful replacement I finally got my phone. One plus 7 pro is one of it's kind. No comparison..... Video quality and stability mind blowing.... Camera quality decent... Touchscreen works like charm.... U will understand after using it.... Screen - OMG! really appreciate this approach.After having blazing fast processor and amazing fluid amoled screen i am pretty impressed that it stays long enogh ... Almost 18 to 20 hours... I playbpubg, watching videos on YouTube and Amazon prime.... Though its give very decent battery life....After 1 month of full usage I can say proudly that I am satisfied with this product. A bit disappointed on OnePlus for not adding the type C to 3.5 mm jack. But overall its a mobile worth of 50k....\n", "The Oneplus 7 Pro is a stunner. Gorgeous design. At the rear it had a 3 camera setup. All three work amazingly. The 3x telephoto actually helps and gives very clear pictures. The nightscape mode is the best I've seen till now. The results are stunning to say the least. Check the attached pictures. None of these have been reprocessed. The screen is smoother beauty. Full saturated colours and perfect. I'm not sure I'm fond of the curved screen though. The call quality and reception is perfect. The BT range of excellent. The 2 external speakers are unexpectedly, actually very good. The battery life is more than adequate. In my normal use its still at 70% in the evening. Like all the preceding Oneplus models this too is blazingly fast.If I have a grouse outs the automatic screen brightness. It's absolutely useless. It does nothing. My Oneplus 5t controlled brightness really well. Is this a deal breaker? Not one bit. This is the best mobile for me and the one that gives real bang for the buck\n", 'Excellent phone. Delight to see & hold in your hands.OnePlus has done an excellent Job - they picked all new funtions , new technologies (pop-up camera, curved screen, QHD dispy, on-screen finger print, 90 hrz etc. ) & added to this phone. - Intelligent approach.Has an excellent screen, 90 hrz is exceptional experience ( now when I use my older phone, it looks like sluggish)Very responsive finger print. Good battery (for me at least), innovative gestures etc.Overall an excellent experience. Thanks\n', '1-Bettery should b optimised but i m okay with the warp charge thats pretty fast2-Device is heavy in weight3-camera is the most important highlight in any device, its good but not like other flagships, it need an improvement via software update4-Speed is awesome5- Gaming experience is top class, its very smooth6- Display quality is awesome, vivid, colourful, sharp and very smooth7- From my opinion there should some more font styles like samsung8- Video experience is very crisp and clear9- Streo sounds are loud and clear with dolby support10- Oxygen OS is best in world, so many customizable options are available11- 3.5mm jack is missing, its very sad, so i have used new oneplus wireless bullet 2 and the experience was just never before12- IP rating is missing , its almost now flagship level pricing so oneplus should maintain this13- Fnatic mode is very helpful during game play15- Camera night mode is nice\n', "Great Delivery from Amazon. Got it delivered on 17th with morning delivery. Now let's talk about phone.Display is just one of the best. It's 90hz display makes the phone seem so smooth. It's just like a butter. Performance is always awesome in one plus and this takes one step forward with UFS 3.1. camera is a good improvement over 6T but still can't be compared with other flagship.I was little hesitant about pop up camera but oh boy it works awesome. It is a good implementation. Phone box doesn't include USB to 3.5m converter. Charging speed is awesome. Camera is good but requires some software optimization.\n", "What I like--Excellent performance, fast bootup and instant app loadup-Display is the one that impresses me the most with its 90hz refresh rate and curved glass-Build quality is great, slim design and glass back give the premium feel-OxygenOs is great, gives one of the best UI experience-Stereo speakers with Dolby Atmos makes the sound crisp, clear and loud.-Has gaming mode which boosts up the performance while gaming-Camera is great, but needs improvement.-Charging is very fast and also doesn't refrain from using phone while charging-Lastly, on screen fingerprint scanner is very fast and accurateWhat I dislike/ poorly like--No headphone jack-Box hardly contains any accessories unlike other flagship phones; no type-c adapter, no complimentary headphones, no otg cable; only charger and sim ejector tool-Hybrid Sim slot-Photos clicked have heavy detail loss, when magnified the objects far away seems smudged, not expected in a flagship phone like this.-Face unlock is a bit slow due to popup mechanism-Battery drain is high when operating it at QHD+ resolution and 90hz display but can go for a day with moderate use.-Factory applied screen protector is of very low quality, doesn't even stick properly on the edges-Finally, price is bit high compared to other flagship phones with similar specification.\n", "The SCREEN of this phone is magnificent.Probably it can be its best feature. HDR10 QHD+ display 🙌The CAMERA was not as expected at first, but due to OnePlus team's extra efforts the camera has significantly improved (3-4) since launch for the camera.The BATTERY is great for a day's usage but not at the level of the P30 Pro.The BUILD QUALITY is stupendous and is at par with the top players if not better. The phone is heavier than average, which has its own pros and cons.The BUTTONS and the VIBRATION motor give good feedback.The FINGERPRINT READER is fast and you won't notice the difference between the speed of a traditional and an on-screen one.I noticed that the phone was killing apps more than expected. It started killing apps after keeping 3-4 apps in the background (6GB version).Overall, very happy with this investment.\n", "If you want to buy a true flagship phone and don't care about brands, then buy it. Probably the best screen and performance in the market right now and an excellent camera. Battery is decent and warp charging is a thing of dreams.Pros -1. Best display ever.2. Best performance stats.3. Decent battery life. Fastest charging.4. Excellent camera. Pixel and Samsung does it better.5.excellent stereo speakers.5. Price is cheap.6. Stock android feel with some upgradesCons -1. Bulky and heavy.2. Not up certified. Some reviewers claim it to be splashproof though.3. No headphone jack and wireless charging.\n", "One Plus 7 Pro is the  Best phone till date under one plus flagship.Well I think it has both Pro and Cons.I have listed them down as per my observation.Pro:1) Super Dispaly best in class and at this price.2) Battery backup is excellent.3) Camera is great please dont compare it with Samsung.Try the same in low light..4) Processor speed is superb with no heating issue .5)Quick charging and very fast clock speed.Cons:1) A bit heavy.2) No headphone jack.I had thought atleasy with this range of price they should provide us headphones and a Back cover.I think they have only reserved those things for Technical reviewers.If you see any technical review of the product they will get all accessories but a regular buyer won't.\n", "Guys after using 3 days ..I can say it's the best device for 50 k..90hz screen is too good...and speed mind blowing..Camera quality is not that much good as per the specs but with update it will improve . Fingerprint reader is too fast.Battery life is awesome ..pie runs your usage pattern and then give you the best battery life...I am getting 6 hours of screen on time with 2 hours of PUBG which is much more than my 5TAudio quality - awesome , pair it with apple airpods or  jbl Bluetooth earphones .Device is not that big, you will get used to with time and other displays will look small to you.\n", 'Oh my God awesome product!The screen is freaking smooth and nice build quality. Camera is better than any other one plus phones and even competes other cameras.Battery is bit on a rough side and is expected due to 90hz screen rate but it charges equally well and very fast.Loving it\n', "What a phone. Totally worth every penny. The screen is the main attraction. The quality is out of this world just woowww.  The camera is good I won't say it's the best. But the smoothness is unreal the speed is unreal it's silly fast. And cherry on the cake is the wrap charger it charges your phone in no time. The look is classy and soft but still impactful.\n", "Been using this for 10 days.The display is excellent ( not as good as Samsung oleds but still a great display considering the 90hz and QHD panel.)Battery life is good enough for an average user, warp charging helps a lot when you're in a hurry.Camera is also good enough imo but it should improve via software updates ( you can still install the Google camera mod though).Performance is excellent on this one!! No lags or anything like.Keep in mind that this is a big and relatively heavy smartphone.Overall an excellent smartphone, but if camera is your HIGHEST priority, go for pixel 3a.I'm happy with my op7 pro.\n", 'At start the handset crashed,showing android had stopped working. Then I contacted One plus care and the advised to either replace or do the hard reset. The hard reset worked and the phone is working perfectly.Performance,charging speed,camera,display everything is good. Sound clarity is also good. Overall a good flagship product. 😊\n', '1. Display and wrap charging is really awesome2. Battery life is good on 60Hz speed and okish on 90Hz3. Speed of  faceunlock is good and fingerprint reader is VVGood\n', 'The product is simply awesome. One plus has surely  put a lot of work to make such elegent design and superfast device. The screen experience is just out of the world, its buttery smooth. Speed has always been the forte of One plus and Kudos to the team you wont even find one slightest of a glitch while using this device. Allso dont worry if you hate waiting for long hours to get your battery charged, the new 30W Warp charger does its job for you in no time. The camera quality is also decent and fulfills all your daily requirements. Overall the experience has been very good and trust me you wont be regretting your purchase, So if you are planning of buying one simply go for it.\n', "The display is just too good. I was unsure about the battery life because of mkbhd. But in my use I'm getting around 7 hours of SOT with 90hz and 2k resolution.Post camera update, the hdr issues have been almost solved.In my opinion the higher price is worth it, the other flagships at least in India are way too overpriced\n", "Display - 10/10Sound quality - 10/10Battery - 10/10Fast charging - 10/10 ( But it heats up sometime during charging but not always , so might be running background apps issue )Performance - 9/10Day Camera - 8/10 ( not including GCam )Low light Camera - 9/10Camera in pro mode (9/10)Fingerprint - 8/10 ( once or twice a week it actually lits up but doesn't work )Call voice quality - 9/10Touch and scrolling - 9.5/10 ( Edge could have been used better so it's 9.5)Liked features -Performance is awesome and on screen fingerprint is so fast .You can actually clicks awesome images using pro mode if you are photography freak.Bugs are continuously being taken care with software updates.(3 times till now).Everytime charged . Great battery and flash charging.Bonus **** popup selfie camera is fab awesome. And yes it's durable with motion sensor works good. I have tested it a lot by dropping the phone.Cons -Price is too high for sure.Full glass back that can shatter easily with 2-3 drops .No 3.5 mm jack . Type C convertor is inconvenient to use.Case provided is of so average quality\n", "An amazing phone with everything you need.It provides an ultimate user experience with 90hz display everything is so smooth never experienced lag yet.Fingerprint reader is fast but 1 in 10 times it might not recognize your fingerprint and that's okay one can settle with that.It is much better than the gaming phones out there with fnatic mode and the display it is just perfect.The camera was good with some minor issues when i received the phone but after the update the camera experience has been alot better.It provides me a screen on time of around 5-6 hours  which is quite good because i am a heavy user.*All in all this phone justifies it's pricing*\n", "I've spent the last 3 days using the 8GB variant OnePlus 7 Pro, and this is my favorite OnePlus phone to date.Pros• Silky smooth and sharp AMOLED screen• Powerful Performance• Stereo speakers with Dolby Atmos sound great• Pop-up camera doesn't feel gimmicky• Responsive in-display fingerprint scanner• Curved edges doesn't distort content around the edges that much  unlike Samsung's• Decent low-light photos• Great design and build quality• impressive fast-charging battery (WARP charge)Cons• No headphone jack• little bit on the heavier side• not so good battery life (when using display at 90Hz refresh rate)\n", 'I bought a oneplus 7pro and i was happy but oneplus doesnt provide type c to 3.5 mm jack.. i have managed by not having audio jack in phone but why didnt u give the connector in the box content.. I was vry disappointed with oneplus... I have paid 49k for a phone and i didnt get a type c to 3.5 mm jack connector!! This is vry disappointing..\n', 'Such an awesome device.Looks : 10/10Performance: 10/10Camera: 9/10UI: 11/10NO DOUBT, this model will create some records.\n', "Let's start with the first thing that you would notice - size.It's a big phone, yeah. But, after 2 weeks you won't notice. It will feel just perfect in hand (if you don't use a cover on this). With a cover, it's still alright. And yeah, I've been using Galaxy S7 and Lg G7, meaning small phones, always. So yeah, size won't bother you and it feels as premium as a phone can get.Next, Display - I compared the display to S10, S10 Plus, Note 9, Pixel, iPhone. I love this display in every aspect. Everything will always look better. Maybe because of the larger size or actual display quality, I don't know. It's the best I've had. Outdoor visibility is a little less (only when you compare with others), but it will get the job done easily.Battery - Do not go through online review. It'll last a full day easily on heavy use. I'm getting a day and a half - 4 hrs Sot with 32-38 hrs or 7+ hours sot on weekends with a 18-22 hrs standby. Even it doesn't; You won't ever feel it. Charges in no time, Doesn't heats up while charging (even when you're using it). It's getting better after each day.Camera - Again, getting better after each update. I'm on android 10 open beta preview and you get all the features that you want. Every function enabled on each sensor. Default setting is great, detailed images, perfect balance. And, when you want to tweak, Pro mode is there. You don't need anything else when it comes to cameras. Btw, when comparing the pictures between S10 and 7 Pro, you'll like the 7 pro just cause of the display.Performance - Do I really need to review this? Just cut the animation scale to 0.5x in developer mode and it feels crazy. Not a single hiccup so far. This is the best performer in the industry.You won't get better experience than this. You may buy other flagships because you though the camers might be better or battery or blah blah. This the best thing in the market right now. Or, just wait for the 7T pro. 1 months maybe. Best thing ever.But, get a framless cover for 500, it will maintain the sleek feel of the phone. Don't try any uv screenguards, they are horrible. Use the stock screenguard or simple protectors.Cheers!\n", "It's a good phone I simply loved it the performance is awesome it's fast and smooth SD 855 rocks, the looks of the phone is great. I have ordered the phone on 16th at 12:00pm and got it on 17th at 2:00pm till now no problems in the phone.\n", "Please dont buy this product this have many bugs and still they are not improved1. Sometimes volume get decreased and then need restart to fix2. Faceunlock doesn't work in dark3. Many apps crash (clash of clan , snapchat)4. App unclock cant be different from screen unlock5. While call notification centre opens\n", 'It has been only one month of my purchase . There are many gliches in the 12 gb varient . Sometime app closed on its own . One day camera app was closed on its own but the front camera still open  . In my 7 pro  alam was set on its own but in clock app nothing is showing , I talk to oneplus support they suggested me to reset the phone . In one month only i have to reset my 7 pro  , let see how many times in future i have to do and how many times i have to visit oneplus service center.Very disappointed with oneplus\n', 'Phone build is good. Takes some time to get used to the device after using Samsung for the last 7 years. Have been using for almost 2 months and it has got stuck/hung a couple of times. Several times when a dialled number could not connect I would get  loud beeping sound and no way to turn it off other than to restart the phone! The phone dialer disappears mid way sometimes so no way to use dialer features during the call including disconnecting the call - this is quite irritating. Expected a better finger print reader.\n', "Apple is apple no one compares wth iphone. Don't take out while rain is coming it's not working properly on tht time lyk fog was coming inside the camers. And nw finger print , auto rotation is not working in my phone.\n", 'First of all I am already a user of One plus 3T so i had lot of expectations from one plus 7 pro. The amazon delivery time is awesome. I ordered one evening and it got delivered next day morning. The look and feel is great..there seems to be some problem with the finger print sensor . Camera is good.\n', "Was using Samsung s9 plus after coming from OP 5T coz of the 2k display and dual speakers.. N now.. OP deliversss!!! 2k display +90hz refresh rate...!! Buttery smooth.. That transitions when in 90hz..makes thisa awestruck display.. Also coupled with Dolby atmos powered dual speakers. Couldn't have asked for more.. Every reason to comeback to OP family..I could say no need of wireless charging any day since we r getting warp charge with whooping 30W..its lightning speed..\n", 'The camera quality is not good , the details are less sharper than my previous vivo v 9. I am very much disappointed as they boast so much about camera in ads. But the display is amazing. Battery drains fast\n', 'Hi All,Here below i have put some point about the One Plus 7 Pro (8GB RAM +256 GB storage) after using about 20 Days. I hope this will be informative for you.Pros1) It looks very stylish and slightly curved display is added beauty of this mobile.2) Display/Screen is large and give ultimate movie/video Experience3) I did use the 1+ 6 earlier as well so comparison to that it\'s far better than if i compare the sound quality. it Gives 3D sound effects4) Vibration intensity is quite good5) Charging speed is good, But to get the 100% charge it takes long time6) Rear Camera is very good, But Video/Image stabilization is less than one plus 6, and slow motion video requires high lights, capturing motion object is not good. but wide image capturing and day light shots still will not disappoint you.7) Front camera here is pop up camera so according to me for the selfie you do not need to clean Everytime... so i like it personally8) Storage is enough to handle your data9) Data transfer rate via cable or Wireles is fast, But also produce heat10) Finger Print is OK, I will not say bad but its not lightening fast11) overall it\'s good product will not disappoint you when you will go for thisCons Hardware is strong but there are some software problem which i face i will mention here... its not a show stopper but One Plus need to look into this.1) If you remember one plus 6 that gives alphabet reflection  "S" on its glass panels and it was added style... but One plus 7 they didn\'t provided that kind of reflection.... i am not happy with that2) No accessories like earphones with the box3) I purchased type C bullets earphone from one plus but it is not smooth to insert and move out from type C port4) Pre applied screen protector there is bubble in curved corner.. So i think  it will not work for me for long time :(5) Now come to the software isssue- Screen Auto Brightness is not well tuned- Rotation sensors is not work well some time you need to slap the mobile to work the same :(- Rotation sensors not works for all mode of example if you are looking some file from the file manager  and you want to horizontal look into that so that will not work- Supposed you have opened the WhatsApp and suddenly call come then you will not able to who is calling and what number its you need to click on that-When call is active in SIM 1 you will not receive mesg on SIM 2 , I faced this issue many time i used to disconnect the call to get that message- When i put my mobile in pocket and when i move out from my pocket it says to many wrong or incorrect Finger attempt kind of message.. so I guess may be pocket sensors is not there or i have not enabled some settings on it- There are many other software issue i observed which i faced i dont want to make this post lengthy by this so moving next-Screen recoder should work in background, but here it gives dot symbol, So what if i want to record activity on my mobile in hidden way ? there is no option6) Cover is good fited but to charge the mobile you need to move out  the plastic cover from type C port but after using 20 days shape has changed of that and its not covering any more type C port, then why they haven\'t cut that piece which is almost unused. its very annoying to see that pieceNote : These above software issue points should not stop you to buy this product... These are minor problem that can be rectified by newer updateand i want to appriciate and wish good luck to One Plus and it\'s team for this product. Such a nice product.\n', 'This is an awesome phone so far. The camera, Warp Charge, the battery, screen, dolby sound, are really awesome.Only one thing that was to worry is the absence of 3.5 mm jack, but that is covered by warp charge. They should include a type C to 3.5 mm jack adapter in the box.\n', "The screen size and viewing has just spoiled me.The bezeless screen with curved display is really to die for. I don't know if I can ever go back from this screen to any other device now.The processing speed is really really good.It doesn't slow down when it is dying in battery or if 4-5 apps are running in parallel. Processing is just flawless.When I was buying this phone, I was continuously told that camera is something u won't like. However, to my surprise till now the images taken are just amazing.Really love the portrait mode and wide angle feature on this. So amazing.Overall mobile feels really premium in your hands.Must recommended buy if this comes under your budget.\n", '\xa0Please see the attached video. This was my first oneplus purchase. I purchased it on 20th Oct in sale and prepaid 42000. Got it on 24th and as you see it had faulty Android and hanging issue. I was unable to do even initial setup. NOW AMAZON REMOVED THEIR RETURN POLICY. so you can not directly return it, one TAPORI technician will come and he will check whether mobile is really having any issue or not. Trust me he was one of the most unprofessional person I met in my life. But some how he understood my problem and forwarded the issue to Amazon team. So now my replacement will come in next week.CONCLUSION: I paid 42000 on 20th Oct and I got working mobile on 4th of Nov. This is worst service by Amazon and worst product of Oneplus. Never gone buy any oneplus product again.\n', 'Happy with the phone one plus delivered its promise and the few bug fix n patch update  makes it still smooth no lags even in heavy games and screen response is beyond compare the display clarity is beyond compare I stream Netflix  content n prime love yo watch.. the battery last till 50% in normal mode  when saver mode its super  cool when u adjust the refresh rate and optimised use...Gaming mode is added  cool stuff ...\n', 'I bought it for my friendCamera AwesomePerformance MindblowingLook ShinyPrice Not ok with thatFingerprint Very responsiveBattery life upto 8hrsBest in class camera\n', 'One Plus 7 Pro has brilliant specifications. Camera zooms upto 10x. Took a photo of the moon not a single pixelation in image when zoomed at 100%.\n', "So been using it for a week and a half or so ,here's the layman review the kind I would've wanted to read here in the review sectionPro's-SCREEN- so good you'll find it hard to keep the phone away from you for even a little while .It's butter like crazy smooth.DISPLAY- be it qhd or fhd things are way above par a premium experience warm and subtle bright colors soothe your eyes enhanced by the resolution options offered by the phone . It's 'For your eyes only '.CHARGE- it's 'warping' fast I charge my phone at 5% mark and 30 minutes later it is 65 % so the One plus did good on the promise . The brick is beast of a charging plug.REFRESH RATE - ITS 90 Hz or nothing that's how fantastic that refresh is . 60Hz doesn't disappoint either  , the difference between the two is not too much but you definitely feel surfing a wave while sliding down and up it'll be a whole new time pass .lolCAMERA- nightscape mode and normal photo mode are super cool crisp and subtle pics to impress anyone . The pop up selfie camera gives a clean and cool selfie . So pop it like you work itOthers- no heating issues did play pubg on 90 Hz and qhd lasted me 3.5 hrs on what was the best pubg experience thus far . The only reason i reinstalled pubg after quitting it last year was to check the limits of the specs offered by the phone and it superceded it in everyway possibleCONS-BATTERY- 90 Hz and qhd will take a toll on your phone .battery life is disappointing kind of but given high end specs you get at this price plus the warp charge I think the company made its warp charging knowing that .With high end spec it lasts about 4-5 hrs extensive use like gamingWith 90hz and fhd about 5-6 he extensive to moderate use .60 hz and fhd -5-7.5 hrs with extensive to moderate useHANDLING-depends on your hands me being a 6'3 didn't find it difficult at all.CAMERA- even after the update the portrait mode is disappointing depth effect has played a spoil sport .NO DONGLE(SCREW YOU ONE PLIS FOR THAT ;). )NO HEADPHONE JACK (DOUBLE SCREW YOU)Overall go for it just the best experience this flagship has to offer in range of 49k to 53 k .NOTE - DO NOT REMOVE THE GLASS ON THE SCREEN THAT IS THERE BY DEFAULT IT IS THE BEST ONE YOU'VE GOT FOR A LONG WHILE WILL DO JUSTICE\n", "The phone is super amazing.. It is a little heavy compared to other models from One Plus but that's not a complaint as the phone is real fast with great and simple features.. The finger print scanner is not that great as most of the times I have to input my password due to lockage from trying several times. I think they need to work a lot on this.. Camera quality is super good and even the night pictures turn out to be fabulous.Has a great battery life.. Based on my usage I'm getting around 12-15 hours.. But I need not to worry as the phone charges super quick.!Initially there were a few call drops but I think the issue is fine now..The best part about the phone is it's speakers! Dolby surround is just out of the World and you get a theater experience while watching videos or even music for that matter..OnePlus could have provided some basic headphones with this phone as it does not have a jack.. But i think you can get a good wireless headphone for around 2000 which will solve your problem..\n", "Seamless navigation, good low-light images and above all wonderful OS. A real flagship-killer.You can always research,review and compare but unless you use this phone or see anyone using it,you just can't comprehend the massive leap in class this phone brings in an average price-tag.Above all,you just can't have the best of everything but you can come close to eternity...that's OnePlus 7 Pro for you.Regarding delivery and packaging,Amazon never ceases to amaze and I candidly have never been so excited on seeing a package such smoothly arranged and sturdy being handed over.Besides, OnePlus has a tie-up with amazon.in and thus the product is genuine.(PS- Will add more images and a detailed review as I get time.)\n", "What can I say?!This phone's simply Awesome!Killer performance, spectacular display and amazing camera clarity after the updates (but still needs improvement), warp charging and many other features..Overall, it's a nice phone!\n", 'Waited 5 year to buy new phone after using Samsung note 3.Can say it was worth waiting.With this price tag and feature I consider this as perfect purchase.Main feature.Screen A+Speed SD 855Looks..even mirror grey look perfect90hz refresh rateBatteryDisappointedCameraScreen is quiet large\n', 'awesome product,really beyond the speed...clone my old one plus phone with nebula blue.. with in 15 min..all data transfer.. by one plus switch..stylish star... macho look.... brilliant..for one plus.. in bocca al lupo for future endeavours...\n', 'The main reason why i bought this phone is my old C9 Pro broke and i needed a phone with good Display which can support HDR 10,Then i gone with the hype and finally bought this phone.but i got the problem with the display itself 😪 I wanted a phone with a gud display when i didn\'t get whta i want for so what do i do with the rest of the specs.After playing any 4K/HDR content ylloew color is appearing on the whole screen even when i put the screen calibration "Cold".And when i on the reading mode its worse ....all dispaly is seems like someone spreaded Turmeric Powder on it & its not bright as many samsung\'s phones.i have been using my old samsung c9 pro for 3yeras and i knw it.Being a movie lover i luv watching movies in my phone. Totally disappointed with the display.OnePlus should update thier dispaly next time with more brighter screen.\n', "Was waiting for a good deal on S10, meanwhile OP7Pro was launched so I bought it on the first day it started selling, Amazon delivered the same day. Great service. I received and installed 2 updates, and having used it for a week plus, I can say it's been a mixed experience. Some features work well, others dont. So here's my impression for you.Good:1. Large and sharp LED screen with good legibility. Watching videos is fun. The on screen FP sensor is fast and conveniently located, no delays or misses.2. Dual speakers with clear sound, though music quality through speakers is just about OK.3. Fast and zippy, be it apps, games or file transfers. Doesnt get hot while playing games or charging4. Really fast charging. Fully charged in an hour!5. Oxygen OS is minimal and easy to use. The popup selfie camera is quicker than I expected.6. Haptic feedback is very refined. I used to turn it off on phones. On this one, it's on.The bad:1. The curved edges make it more slippery and the image on the edges reflect and appear distorted, any element there is hard to touch. Collects fingerprint marks easily. I dont find the missing notch makes any huge difference in my usage.2. There is no headphone socket on the phone, no USB-C headphone or adapter in the box3. The selfie camera is average, The rear triple camera setup isnt great as advertised. The main camera is good but gives inconsistent results.The Ugly1. Handling the phone because of it's weight, size and top heaviness, slipperiness.2. Battery life is a shame for a 4000mAh. Bringing down refresh rate and screen resolution made it a bit better, but it's still a one day phone at best.3. Wide angle lens is low on detail, not too wide yet creates distortion4. Not VFM at this price. Its should have been 6-8k cheaper for that.My impression is, this is a phone that only huge screen lovers should go for. The rest should wait for OP7, check if its battery life isnt as bad as this, and go for 8/256 version, still saving 11k over oneplus 7 pro. Else wait for s10/s10+ discount sale. I regret I didnt wait for S10 to be discounted.\n", "With standard use the phone simply died within a month form purchase. Something that you don't expect with a 52k flagship. I have logged a ticket with support and only the resolution they provide may help change the rating..\n", "though the phone is heavily loaded but there are certain things which it lacks and is required by most of the common users. having a high camera setup the phone still gives you an ok image which when compared to other flag ships is way less quality wise. i felt for such high end phones 4000mah battery is less, though 7 pro gives you decent 1 and half day back up on normal usage but same back gets reduced to a day or less on extensive usage. last but the most important is the head phone jack,  i was expecting one plus would provide c to 3mm jack connector like they did in case of one plus 6 and 6t. strange thing is they don't have enough inventory of the same.\n", "The phone is a beast. I switched for iPhone to one plus. Not sure if you'll find a phone this fast and smooth. The 90hz is a treat to scroll through, you will feel the difference after using this phone and then switching to a different phone with a basic 60hz. The experience is just wonderful. The fingerprint even though is fast it's not necessarily consistent you'll sometimes need to keep trying to unlock the phone and the camera is decent at most, does the job most of the time. Video watching experience is absolutely wonderful, great battery life, you can expect a whole day even with considerable usage. Absolutely worth the money\n", 'I got a faulty product delivered and it was promptly repalced by the service center, good people at Chennai (Masood) and Bangalore (Anirudh) Service Centre. Overall the Phone is performing as expected worth the money spent. I am happy that one plus is backed by good service center executives.\n', 'Got it delivered today.I must say, the display quality has improved like anything. Triple Camera beyond words and sounds are like the real Dolby. Warp is faster than 6T charger. All the other specs are the usuals.Cons :Heavy built - weights more than 6TNo jack given - headset\n', "Well there are lots to like about this device.The displayThe haptic feedbackDual stereo speakersMultimedia experience (watching movies and TV shows)Oxygen uiGreat performance thanks to the sd855Not going to mention the benefits of ufs3.0 since I'm yet to transfer anything to/from the device but it's an advantage as well.Now coming to the only thing that can be improved and most definitely not a con are the cameras. Still great to use for a normal user won't feel all the differences that the youtubers are commenting and the everimproving op team will definitely improve the camera experience through promised future updates.\n", "I had ordered a Nebula blue one plus 7 pro. Received the device on May 31st, delivery was done efficiently, Thank you Amazon.The Nebula blue device looks beautiful. Good work Oneplus.From two days of experience (will edit comment if anything new comes up):Pros:Everything in the news hold true -1. Good looking large screen - fun to use a truly full screen phone.2. Overall build of the phone is great - thought it would be too heavy (200gm) to use but it is not so.3. Battery does hold up for up to 1.5 days on a single charge (I'm a moderate user)4. Camera is decent. I currently switch between GCam and Default camera apps depending on what I'm shooting. Better to have both installed and available for your use.Cons:Again, the news holds true.1. Ghost touches: The issues reported on ghost touches does occur. But this happens only occasionally, does not bother you much.2: Weak speaker - when set to Max phone volume, it's feels less pleasant to hear. Must ensure that it is not set at full volume.3. Phone hangs/stutters when re-used after a long break. Not sure if this is android's fault or oneplus'Current verdict: This is one of the best phones out there, pricey but effective. Go for it.\n", "This is absolutely the cheapest flagship phone you could get at this price point.It's positives are1. Nearly Bezelless display2. Fluid Amoled display with curved edges.3.Super Fast charging speeds (30W)4.90HZ refresh rate5. Excellent camera setup6.Great viewing angles7.UFS 3.0 supportIts negatives are1. Not a great power house due to the 90hz display and the quad hd resolutions2. Images are soft (but can be improved with some software updates)\n", "If u like to play very good quality games at smoothest rate with hdr graphics and u like lot of videos u can go aheadDownside camera us good not great ,it's heavy and long in length no wireless charging and no ip ratingU can check Asus Zenfone 6z also before buying bc of value for money Asus is offering also please visit store and check the phone weight and balance if it comfortable u can go ahead else look for other options in market like one plus 7, Asus Zenfone 6z etcPerfect for hardcore gamers and one who enjoys watching Netflix or Amazon prime in hdrCall quality is very clear but network is not greatRam management is excellent and experience of one plus oxygen is is close to stock experienceU get great software updates very regularlyBattery to max 4 to 5 hours on screen time if ur very heavy userNo gorilla glass 6 it's 5 u need temper glass mustScreen quality is excellent out of boxStereo speakers are loudNo headphone jack I really miss it and sure everyone will miss\n", 'Crazily fast.Battery lasts for 1.5-2 days with normal usage.Charges very fast, thanks to long trusted WARP charger.Curved Display and dynamic color adjustment is pretty good.Stereo speakers are loud and clear.\n', 'Completely worth for the money. Only one flaw that such a high end phone is missing wireless charging.And maybe one plus is following iPhone suite of cashing in on the USB c convertor to headphone jack which was supplied along with one plus 6t but missing in 7 pro\n', "It's an amazing phone. The performance is outstanding. Little big for men pocket but overall package is awesome. Thanks OnePlus team. 😊Thanks and regards,Rishi Ratan Singh,Indian Army.\n", "I have purchased this phone last week.Very fast in performance with no lags at all.Battery backup also good supported with ultra fast charging.Awesome camera and screen quality.Little big in size and heavy in weight, it will take around one week to get settle and use to it. So no worries for size and weight.Overall its a must buy phone if ur budget is around 50K. Apple and Samsung can't compete with one plus quality.\n", 'forget about the teaser where oneplus7 is dropped in water. My oneplus7pro exposed to rain for 10 mins and it started flickering and screen damaged.Request all not to take that company video seriously and be careful in monsoon season avoid taking pics with such good camera\n', "Without a doubt this is yet another master piece from ONE PLUS. The only thing missing, which I think should have been included is the head phone jack. There are no cables in the one plus website as well and hence I had to buy one from a different vendor.Battery life is super good. When resource intensive apps aren't used, it can easily last for a day.Camera is better than previous versions.And the best add on is the stereo speakers. The list is long. I just love everything about the phone.\n", 'Loving this phone.. Display is amazing, performance in mind blowing thanks to SD 855,.Feels a tad heavier because of the 5000 mAH battery especially since I have upgraded from OP 3T. Warp charge is ultra fast, but it does cause some heating which is expected..Overall feels a VFM phone.\n', "ProsSuperb displaySuperb speedSuperb OSSuperb designSuperb soundSuperb batteryConsOk CameraNo 3.5 mm headphone jackAbove was my initial impression, after 3 months I'm facing 1 issue which is a major one.The issue is while using the phone the screen gets freeze. For eg if we are using Amazon app then that page will be shown. No keys will work, even if a call came at that time we will not see any notification, if the phone is in vibrate mode it will simply vibrate. Right now while I'm typing this I encountered this issue. I'm typing this for the second time. Only option is to press and hold the power button for sometime ( 2 minutes or so) , then the phone will restart.Very bad for such a price tag product. Very bad OnePlus Team\n", 'Though I liked the phone very much, I was shocked to note that there was no User Manual. I checked online too but not available online too. When I contacted Oneplus for the same, I was informed that manual must be inside the box or I should contact Amazon from where I bought the phone. Unfortunately I can not find a way to contact Amazon and as a result, I am not in a position to use my Phone fully.\n', 'Writting this after using 1.5 months.Pros are1. built quality2. premium look3. warp charging4. camera is much better after many updates5. Stunning Display (qhd+ resolution & 90hz refresh)6. Performance (Speed, speed, speed.....)7. Very good Speakers8. Faster fingerprint sensor9. No heating issue10. Smooth UICons1. Feels bulky in hand(hard to use in one hand)2. Weight3. Not bad battery life4. Double tap wakeup misbehaves (while holding in hand wakes the display even when not double tappped)5. Proximity sensor (since placed on top, it malfunctions during call)6. No notification led\n', 'Phone is nice i got yesterday delivered, however nice camera with better zooming refresh rate with 90 hertz makes a best feel to hand on, this is my first oneplus product..and yeyyii i m enjoying it well\n', 'Happy to buy next oneplus flagship killer oneplus 7 Pro....Fingerfrint sensor :  its working very smooth, unlocked in less than a second.Camera quality: its really best with all features and specially the pixel quality, people have to understand that it show you real image with no addon pixel colour as other phone didBattery life: people have to understand the battery life depends upon the use if u used 24*7 then all phones battery will drain but for generally use it is really best\n', "I bought this phone on first day of launch. My views :Pros :- Display quality is amazing & enjoying it- Speed is extremely good- Camera is very good- Some of the features are good in this modelCons :- Battery life is not good. Need lot's of improvements in battery optimization- In adaptive brightness the screen brightness doesn't change automatically (even if you set it) many a time. You have to manually switch the adaptive brightness off & then on, then the screen will change the brightness. This might be a bug, which OnePlus needs to resolve- In the new pc received I found bubbles on screen guard provided- Weight of the product is highUsing it for more than 15 days now & I am loving it inspite of few negative points, being a OnePlus lover. But the company has to improve the product in many ways & we expect the updated in the near future.\n", 'Very smooth and buttery.....I am a big fan of OnePlus phones and the performance of this phone completely blown me off.....Good Job OnePlus team.....keep it up....👍\n', "Pro:- Display- Performance- Great in display fingerprint reader- Awesome fnatic mode for gamers- Zen mode for the ones who uses phone too much- Great low light photography- Great camera quality (after recent update)- Really nice portrait mode- Super fast wrap charging- The pop-up camera, one must admit it's pretty cool- heptic feedback makes gaming experience better for supported app.- great stereo soundCons:- Battery life is not great but the super fast wrap charging compensate that.- Some times photos are not great, might need some tweaking to get that great shot.\n", "Just single drop of rain destroyed my ONEPLUS 7PRO. I WENT TO ONE PLUS SERVICES STATION THEY SAID THEY CAN'T DO ANY THING I DON'T KNOW WHAT TO DO NOW.\n", "I bought OnePlus7 pro 8GB/256GB Nebula Blue on 13th June and upgraded (yes upgraded) from OnePlus5, which I used for almost 2.5 years. Before that I was using OnePlus1, So I am part of OnePlus community for almost past 5 years. Therefore, I have witnessed the journey of OnePlus in India from the beginning. Let's get into the details:1. Display - Amazing display with Fluid AMOLED and 90 Hz refresh rate. It is way better than OnePlus5 and OnePlus6 also. I haven't compared it with 6T. After using this phone for almost 2 weeks, I feel OnePlus5's display is dull and lifeless.2. Sound - The Dolby Atmos speakers are the best I have ever experienced in any phone. I compared the same with both OP5 and OP6 and there is a significant improvement in sound quality. The phone has speakers on both the sides but 85% sound comes from the bottom one.3. Battery Life - I haven't used the phone for extensive gaming; with moderate level of gaming (2 hrs.) and 3-4 hrs of screen time and 1.5 hrs of calling time it would easily give you 24 hrs. For cricket lovers, a full charge of phone will give you 70-75 overs with 70% volume.4. Camera - It is far better than OP5 and OP6, especially the low light clicks, but it could have been better for this price.5. Performance - I have never faced any problem with the performance of any OP phone and I am sure this phone will surpass your expectation.Downsides:1. It is very heavy compared to OP5, 206 gm, you'll feel the weight in your pocket2. There is no 3.5 mm earphone/headphone audio jack3. There is single type c jack for both audio and charging4. The finger print sensor is not as fast and smooth as the previous versions, but it has improved significantly after 2 system updates provided by OP. I hope it'll improve further with future updates5. The face unlock is quick but not quick like earlier phones, because of pop up front cameraThere are some teething problems, which I think we face with every new smart phone these days. I think, it would be sorted with future system updates. Overall, it is an incredible product from OnePlus and certainly the best one ever offered by them. I am sure it won’t disappoint you and it would be worth every penny you are going to spend for this phone.\n", "phones great!-2stars for Amazon delivery.phone box had dents all around.Amazon prime delivery was used to be good now it isn't. it was a late delivery too!.\n", "Out of excitement I have got this mobile but finally im disappointed in many ways battery life is worst and phone is getting disconnected if I continue speak to someone phone is getting over heat if I'm putting it for charging suggest not to buy this mobile it's truly and completely disappointed with this mobileI'm good with my old mobile Redmi note 5 pro comparing to this mobile\n", "Don't Buy This Phone Its Duplicate Product,It can't Be Resistant Atleast One Cup of Water,I chested By Them, Believe Me Pls Don't Buy This Product They Don't care About us after Buy This Phone.I can't Do Anything In this Time with This Phone😓.They Cheated Me With Duplicate Product 😫.\n", "\xa0Touch of phone not working I have last day of return Amazon doesn't accept that so plz don't buy this phone than u will in trouble situation like me 😡😡😡😡😡\n", 'There is no doubt in this that one plus are the best series of phones... This is my second one plus phone and i am absolutely happy with this phone.Pros: battery life, screen quality, premium build, popup camera, main camera, sound output.Cons: try finding one.Updated review: still find strong... Been almost a year. Fingerprint sensor is still fast, camera is still awesome and the speed is still a no lag experienceP.S. m not paid for this review, its just that you have to own a one plus to know what it can really do\n', 'I have bought one plus 7 pro two days ago. This is the best product One Plus has made till date. I have bought 12 GB RAM and 256 GB storage.First of all I must thank Amazon for a wonderful delivery commitment. The day I ordered next day delivery however, it was too much rainy day. Hats off.I have given 4 star ideally should have given 4.5 out of 5 but no fractional marking.Pros...-Wonder physical look both back side dual tone nebula blue and front display really good with smooth flow over the edges. Also no non-sense notch. 👍👍-State of the art processor snapdragon 855, 48 MP Sony camera ( triple) stunning AMOLED display.-Picture quality specially rear is good.-Battery average to good with high resolution display and 90Hz refresh rate and large display,  battery should have been 4500 mAH. Hope they will correct in 7T Pro.-Sound quality stereo speakers good.Cons...-Finger print reader requires full finger coverage not touch and go type which was a case for my earlier Honor View 10.-Biggest disappointing is that such a high quality product but such a cheap plastic cover? Such things are acceptable for 25k product not from a product have values nearly 60k.- No ear phone or even a type C to 3.5 mm converter. That I have ordered from Amazon. Hence could not experience real quality of listening to music.- No cleaning micro cloth- The charger is so big it covers the next socket area on switch board and when this phone is getting charged I cannot use next socket.-Selfie experience is not good, photos get heavily distorted on edges.- 206 gm a bit heavy on shirt pockets should have been below 200gms.- No expandable memory my old micro sd is now useless.- 12GB RAM does not give extra storage on devices, exactly do not know why 8GB and 12 GB cost difference is 6k. Samsung gives higher storage with higher RAM.\n', 'First of all this phone is value for moneyThe camera quality is phenomenalExcept for the front camera performance in dark confition is very poorThe finger print scanner is not that accurateThe battery life is very goodBest battery in any smart phoneThe display is greatPotrait mode is avgNight scape mode is amazingBetter than s10 plus in all aspectsIf you are confused btwn note 10 pls and op7proGo for op7pro\n', 'I just brought it 15days ago and one plus 7T got released with same features and 20000 less price and it has fallen from just 35cm and screen got broken.\n', "Very nice phone OnePlus 7 ProI liked the lookI liked the cameraI liked the body colour nebula blueBattery could be better because it decreases with full features onIf you play games it will drain moreBut for normal daily use also battery is not enough at 90 hz. I'm charging twice daily.I felt bad for no earphone and no premium hard back cover were provided in the box although transparent cover was givenBut in the end it's nice to have oneplus latest mobile phone\n", "Phone is excellent. Front screen is not scratch proof at all. So put a screen guard. After one and half months I can't make or recieve calls. Will have to take it to service center\n", "I have purchase 8 GB varient on 24-06-19 and within 3 or 4 days I found following defects :-1. Battery backup is very poor. It drains very fast.2. OnePlus claimed super strong conactivity, but according to me it is only satisfactory.3. Cost of this product is very high.4. I contacted customer care within 4 days of purchase for replacement. But they refused.So guys if you want to purchase costly phone. Think deeply about the negetive side. So please read all customers reviews carefully and then finalise. Once product received, you can't do anything.\n", 'Well, there is nothing to dislike about this device. I own the 8GB Ram version of OnePlus7Pro. But, OnePlus could’ve delayed the launch of OnePlus7TPro. Within a couple of months, your phone is no longer the flagship even though the device was launched less that 3 months ago of my purchase.Note:1. Camera is above average but not among the flagships of other brands.2. Display is amazing. I’ve not experienced anything like it before.3. Just received an update for Android 10.4. OnePlus needs to reconsider gap between launching flagship devices.\n', 'Really fastest mobile in the world ... Stunning camera . Good stability at high zoom .. water-resistance . Awesome battery with fast warp charge.ultra level display , really more smooth .. gaming fnatic -mode is really impressive for gaming. Dolby sounds can feel u like in cinema. Fastest finger print unlock ever... Compared iPhone and Samsung , OnePlus 7 pro is really at the best price\n', 'Must buy this phone if you have a budget of 50K around- Camera excellent- Performance in gaming- Haptick feedback while gaming- Large 4K screen with 4k recordingJust the battery is a problem a big battery is ultimately used bu big display, but WRAP charging comes to rescue here.Ever thought your phone is watching you, not with this one as it has hidden front camera 😂😂😂\n', 'Only 1 word its just "AWESOME"I read some negative reviews for camera performance, but im really very happy with the camera n will give it a 5*. Only the thing i didnt like is the scratch guard and back cover provided is so cheap in quality\n', "One plus 7 Pro is truly a beautiful phone just fell in love with the phone when I got my hands on it, I'm using the phone since 2 days, I want to say a lot of positive things about the phone but I'll make it short, this phone exceeds my expectations in all aspects, just go for it, a great buy, I'll highly recommend it.\n", "Interested in returning and getting a refundA lot of issues with One plus 7 Pro...1) Ghost touches- the touch screen acts wierd sometimes and apps open up and closes automatically.2) Delayed Response- while making calls, there is quite a long delay one I click call option. Sometime feels like the touch is not working and suddenly after 10-15 sec or more, the phone goes into calling mode.3) Voice disturbances-many instances, when the call is made, voice is not transmitted.4) CAMERA- even after the update the back camera is still blurred. Indoors it take decent photography but not up to the mark of a flagship killer (as these are called). The focus is bad. In potrait (depth) mode background is not blurred.I have been following OnePlus community forums and these problems are common all across. Also different people are getting different issues.Would really like to get money back. But the option for refund or replacement wasn't available initially and now it shows refund period closed on 30th may. Looks like a cheap stunt to force the products on the consumers.\n", "Display is the best in the marketright now, fingerprint reader is as fast as you can imagine, games like pubg are extremely smooth and graphics are absolutely amzing. Oxygen os is just so amazing and easy to use and it's extremely fluid. Battery life depends on how much you use the phone really , if you use camera a lot or play lot of pubg then it won't last for a day otherwise you're good to go for one day. My only complain is the camera. In this price of phone you expect really good camera. Unfortunately that's not the case. Camera is just average. Selfie pop up camera looks really cool and catches some attention and its better than the main camera. Nightscape is just a gimmick. So other than the camera , everything else is just perfect.\n", "Switched from iPhone 7 and love it. The phone is super fast and the display is amazing. Love the reading mode. The battery life isn't too great however the charging speed compensates. Overall awesome phone.\n", 'Powerful delivery by Amazon one day prime dayThe phone is very beautiful design vise color is lovely sleek design Pop up Camera is very fastAll the specs were mind blowing\n', 'OH MY GOD..... Amazing device.This is my first One+ mobile phone......and I am totally speechless. I am so happy that I ordered this phone on first day i.e 16 th May 2019. I am deadly sure no one can beat this company.... Guys believe me this is DIAMOND.\n', 'Phone damage within 7 days after receiving. Phone screen showing restarting. This type of performance never except from One plus high value phone.\n', "After 4 month of uses...This is genuine comments as per mine uses of mine One Plus 7 Pro 12GB + 256GB Nebula Blue Edition.1. Build quality awesome. Premium looks and feels.Quite heavy but i feel like a expensive thing in my hand.2. Display is what I had expected. Smooth crystal clear.I am Samsung fan but at this time this mobile display impressed me.3. Lots of negative comments have found that battery is not good..But as per mine view point..it is lasting 3days.4. I am enjoying Dolby sound and loud.5. Face Unlocks is accurate.6. Flash speed charge 0 - 100% in 20 mins6. When I was purchased I was disappointed with camera picture quality. But after 3 updated now impressively changed my thought.Two Negative thing is that1. Fingerprint is not good enough. Becoz dust, sweat,or water will have on mine finger then fingerprint doesn't work.2. Expected wireless charging Technology will be here as per price.\n", 'This phone is amazing. There is everything superb about it except these few which is mentioned below.1) Popup camera will popup everytime you get WhatsApp video call. No matter if the phone is in your pant pocket.2) There is no notification light.3) Videos of Insta and Facebook get cut from the edges when viewed in full screen.\n', 'Fingerprint scanner is slower than previously used capacitive sensor. Picture quality is underachieved by oneplus. Battery drains fast even in this brand new phone. Elegance is super hot. Screen is a flagship and performs well up to the point. Changing takes more time then it was claimed , ufs3. 0 storage increases a bit of speed of data transactions. Nebula blue colour is innovative. Heptic vibration engine will feel just like an apple phone .\n', 'Amazing performance and display as well as touch are incredible.. battery performance is also decent considering the performance it delivers. Camera is decent but one can get same camera quality in one level lower price point phones\n', 'Battery capacity is not adequate as other flagships. Camera quality of front camera is poor... One plus must work on these issues...\n', 'One plus is moving towards premium segment pricing. But gone all those days were Oneplus was flagship killer. I thing instead of investing on Oneplus 7 Pro, we can go to Samsung S10 which has more premium look & feel plus you get all top premium feature like Samsung Pay, Wireless charging, head phone Jack, IP rating, better camera & etc, because here ur not only getting best hardware but best propitiatory software/services to which all come very handy. OnePlus 7 Pro is very heavy to hold in hand, ergonomics/aesthetics is not good.\n', 'Like about OnePlus 7 Pro1. Gaming Mode2. Fnatic mode3. Zen mode4. Screen Recording5. Oxygen OS6. Warp ChargeDislike about OnePlus 7 Pro1. Rear Camera 12 MP instead of 48 MP.2. Front Camera 4.1 MP instead of 16 MP.3. Poor Battery Performance.4. Screen is not scratch resistant.  Overall -1. Graphics- Great2. Ram Management- Great3. Battery Optimisation- Not Good4. Camera- Not Good5. Physical Overview- Good.  Total 3 out of 5.\n', 'Happy to have this phone. .. tried for 12+256 got this. .. This is the first shots of My 7 pro. . Will update other reviews. . Hope 1+ delivered what they promised. . Will try my gaming and update on the performance. . Screen is incredible... to get on to it now. .. I am impressed. ..\n', "Amazing phone with amazing features...oneplus rocks...it's my third oneplus device and still I feel that I have the fastest device in my hand...go for it it's a great phone...thank you oneplus.\n", "I upgraded it from One plus 6. It's just a perfect phone in all aspects. Every spec including hardware and software is awesome. Display,design,camera , sound everything meet my expectations.\n", "I waited patiently for a month to buy the Almond edition and by god it was worth it. The beauty of this variant is very difficult to capture in photos, it really needs to be felt first hand.Coming on to the device itself, it is a monster, in every way. The battery is pretty good, fingerprint sensor works most of the time, vibration motor is amazing, 90 hz is the Trump card. Everything about this phone is spectacular except:The fact that OnePlus have decided to skip the headphone adapter in the box. I covered myself in this regard by buying it before the phone itself but it has been out of stock ever since. There is no reason to omit it from the box.OnePlus has said that it is splash proof, but an official IP rating would have been nice.I don't use wireless charging but for a phone that costs 50k, it should have been there. But I understand OnePlus' point of view that it is better to do it properly.Wide angle video missing, coming as a future update, portrait mode uses telephoto lens.Overall the best phone you can lay hands on.\n", "My first OnePlus phone and it's awesome. There is little weight that you might feel. Charging is super fast, you will never conplain about it. Camera quality is not that great as per its price but beauty is they are continuously pushing updates to make it even better. It's smooth. I don't play games at all so gamer u have no idea wabiut would you look in a phone. Battery backup is awesome. Just one concern, OnePlus needs to push security updates on time. Like it was already end of June when we got May 1st security patch. Gcam works perfect without doing any alteration in the system. Nughtscape is kind of ok till this update when I'm writing it. What else left? Yeah just one more thing, it feels little costly, but would give you great feeling of not owning that cheap version of crap which would merely last an year. So go for it and handle with Care 😉\n", "No headphones or even converter don't know what one plus will save but sure disappointing customers with these small mistakes....even we can't find a original one in one plus site they are always out of stock\n", 'I was so thrilled when i order and got this in hand. But after 2 weeks of full fledged use, this is my verdict. Overall usage of phone is good. Its smooth in operation, fast in processing. But i did not get the feel of the Pricetag it had..Camera: After using the Samsung Note series for almost  6 years, i was very dissapointed in the Camera.. Though they claim a higher PPi, the clarity of the photos are that pathetic for a long distance shoot as compared to a lower version of a Galaxy phone..Battery is not that great but better than Samsung. But still need to see how long that goes. maybe i will have to review again after 3-5 months of use on the battery part..As a brand i feel that Oneplus is too confident now that they have acquired a steady market now and they feel that now they can start cheating the customers.. For this hefty price - there is not even a headphone, the 6+T atleast came with a supporting cable for the Aux, 7+pro didnt even have that.. I still wonder whats the reason for this price tag..I Should have gone for the Iphone XR..This is my biggest mistake i have ever done in purchasing a phone over the years..  NOT WORT THE PRICETAG\n', 'Best Smartphone ever at this Price Segment. Its worth every panny..go for it, if you can afford. Have been using it for past 2 days, didnt find any shortcoming in any aspect be it battery, screen, design THIS PHONE TICKS ALL THE BOXES ! NEVER SETTLE with any lesser competent phone than this !\n', "The first time I saw the phone in my hand, I was astonished! My god such a beautiful display 😀 The speed of app loading & data transfer is truly incredible. One plus nailed it & delivers total customer satisfaction. I would like to thank Amazon for it's safe & speedy delivery. Don't think .. just buy the one plus pro!\n", "I have been using OnePlus 7 pro for the last 2 months and here is the long time review :-Pros :Fastest phone in the market. Trust me after using this phone, you will not feel like using anything elseFingerprint scanner is the fastest in the market & it is amazingPhone charging is blazing fastCamera is too good & the nightscape is amazing. At par compared to Samsung and much better than Redmi phonesOxygen OS is like stock android with Zero ads and no preinstalled garbage appsYou can watch HDR and 4K contents in this phone and the screen quality is out of the world. Watching HDR in Netflix is a bliss in this phoneVideo recording in 4k 60fps is amazingConsCamera can be little better particularly video can't be recorded in wide angle lensBattery life is average considering the consumption if you turn on QHD display with 90hz refresh rate... It will eat a large chunk of batteryI am in love with this phone and upgrading to this phone is a great choice\n", 'Using this phone from last 2 days...Straight out of the box...one of the best looking smartphone.Crisp display... Good camera... Good battery backupAnd the speed is like crazyAll you are gonna miss is notification light... 3.5 mm jack and wireless charging at this price point.But otherwise....this is a serious flagship killer.\n', 'Awesome cell phone must buy, best in Android, best in a market right now, best from all cell phones, value for money.\n', "Phone is beast but only disappointment is Audio jack but no issues after all spending 58k we can buy an adapter ✌️😉 I saw people giving 1&2 stars but I don't understand what might be the reason I have no issues till now it's been nearly 20 days since I bought this phone if it has IP rating it would increase more customers I guess. I'm simply loving this sexy nebula blue 12 gb variant....🥰😍🤩and display is lit 🔥 🔥 Netflix and Amazon prime hdr support 🤩🤩 I'm sure you'll never regret after buying it.Pros:-1. Camera2. Dolby audio3. Display HDR 10+4. Ram management5. BatteryCons:-1. No ip rating but YouTubers proved it survives water splashes.2. Audio jack or atleast adapter\n", "It's a beauty & the beast... What a phone they've made !Everything is so awesome, and this blue color I'm falling in love with it everyday !!\n", "Been using it since launch, battery life is absolutely fantastic and so is the display. However, the camera or its software leaves much to be desired.If I cared about the absolute best image quality, I would not pick this phone. But I don't, and I agree with the majority in stating that no other phone has gone through a whole day with me (except perhaps the P30 Pro) and I would definitely recommend this phone.\n", 'Demerits Very heavy it weighs like a powerbank.Low light camera is not up to the mark compared to oppo f11.Wide angle videos not supported.No headphone jack nor a connector in box which is very bad.Pricing toooooo much.MeritsWarp charging is superbBattery backup is also good but not up to the mark.Front camera is unimaginably good.Gestures and performance are excellent.\n', 'There is a issue with pixels of display , when ever you play any video which has low light kind of dark videos then a greenish flash is blinking up on the screen.i visited the customer and they do know that issue is there in specific to one plus 7 pro series but no help provided. Worst service by op service\n', "The display is the key point which outrage this phone. I just brought this phone for it's display. It feels too smooth & the 90Hz display is way better than u think. Since it's a curved display & huge display with no notches on it you have to be a bit careful in handling it. If you are a bit rough handler then you need to think twice before buying, but if you are a soft user as me then if budget is not a constraint then this is the right phone at this price point.\n", 'Amazing in every possible way. While everything is top notch quality, the screen is just mesmerising and completely notchless. Loving every bit of it.\n', "I ordered as soon as was available. The phone looks beautiful, feels premium. The letdown begins when u start using it for a while. The fingerprint reader was easy enough to setup. But upon usage had issues. it didn't work all the time. Lots of time the phone would just keep saying too many attempts & keep asking for pin. The pop up camera started having weird rubbing noise Everytime it was used.the phone calls had weird static distortion in them while they were quite clear on my iphone. I think they will release an update to fix it. The edges of the screen with the curve e resistance to touch and since the corners of the screen r more rounded than others, lots of time functionality was cut off. Like the voice message button in WhatsApp. The screen looked great with the 90hz display but unresponsiveness killed all the fun. It dosent matter if the screen is good . It might have a higher refresh rate but will still feel slow if the responsiveness is low. The camera quality was the most dissapointing aspect. Coming from iPhone the difference was quite apparent. The images seemed more granier and more saturated. The 3x zoom is underwhelming. Will probably install the pixel camera software as the stock software just dosent match up. But then the pixel phones have the best camera processing in the smartphone world.The battery is fine not great, but that was to be expected with the quad hd 90hz display. Roughly lasts 8to 9 hrs on average usage for me. Warp charge is a boon.Overall the price increase for the pro version does not seem to be justified. Too many trade-off. The one plus 7 which is not getting as much attention is a much better phone and more value for money. The difference in value proposition seems negilible between the two.\n", "I am diehard fan of one plus but this time I was disappointed coz of its camera quality even..one plus 5 has better camera quality than it..  pop selfi camera is also not good ..the picture are blurred after captured...it's battery is not good as previous phones coz it's drained fastly...nd also disappointed for headphones jacks...or even in the time of unboxing u shown there are Bluetooth headset but I didn't get any headset..u should provide headset with phone when we paid 50 k...\n", "Screen : It's really awesome.. 90Hz is silky smooth..Charging Speed : It does charge 50% inside 20 mins..Battery Life : 1.5 - 2 Days battery life for my usage.. It depends upon your usage..Camera : I don't take selfie or photos that much, so can't comment on it..Performance : It is really really fast..Sound : I do watch a lot of my content on YouTube i do feel the speakers are not that clear.. They are loud but not clear(Maybe it can be improved by changing the some setting or solve it in the next updates)My review : Overall i loved the phone.. If you are a normal usage phone person, then you will definitely love the phone b'coz of its 90Hz screen.. Some user will change the display setting to 60Hz, but if you start using it on 90Hz then there no way you will go back to 60Hz..Pros : As per my usage..#1 - If you use it for 30 mins and then take some another phone, you will not like the other phone.. You will fall in love with the display and once you start using it daily, you will not touch any other phone..#2 - Phone has a 1440 x 3120 pixels resolution and huge screen size, so if you watch a lot of content on your phone, You will love it..#3 - Performance is really fast..#4 - Definitely whole day battery life.. (1.5 day for me)Cons : As per my usage..#1 - As the screen size is huge, it is very difficult to use the phone in one hand.. You cannot type while chatting with one hand..#2 - Finger print sensor - I keep my phone inside my bag while driving, the screen wakes up so many times.. Accidental screens wakes up a lot..(Hope they solve this issue in next updates)#3 - Sometimes some apps do crash.. (It may be the choice of app i may use)\n", "Pros: 1. 90 hz (it takes you to another world)  2. Ui speed awesome  3. Charging speed mind boggling.  4. Haptic feedback best in class.  5. Sound quality of speakers awesome  6. A big thanks for the speed of phone.CONS: 1. Poor battery backup (battery drains rapidly)  2. Camera just an average (it kills originality of photos, make face a bit pinkish.)Don't know when one plus camera are going to justify it's price.  3. Handsfree/Bluetooth earpods sound below average. Didn't expected this from one plus.Tried different components handsfree /earpods same result.  3. Weight management very poor.  4. As phone is huge in size, functionality should be at bottom of phone. I hope one plus will do something.\n", 'Tremendous Excellent mobile phone by One +All the features is amazing 😍😍😍😍Camera Quality is amazing especially Pop up camera looks 😎 cool.\n', 'Received the product today. Absolutely mind blowing. Battery back up, display, camera etc everything is perfect. If budget is not a concern then can go for it. Thanks to Amazon for an perfect delivery.\n', 'My primary purpose of buying this phone was to buy a phone with premium finish and a good battery. I dont use the camera much, neither I play games.battery charges really fast, but this monster also guzzles it fast, so not able to hold the battery life longer.\n', "For those complaining  about display and camera issue. Trust this review.I've been an avid user of Samsung from the last 5 years and I've had all of their flagships. This was my first time with One Plus and I am surprised that it surprises me in all departments.. That flamboyant display with a cheeky 90hz is something ppl say is not noticable...Trsut me the absolute feel of that is beautiful.Gaming is undeniably the best from the best in this segment.Camera is great with the patches all of its issues are fixed and going forward many more patch updates will hopefully just make it better.. Stabilization is on point. The audio captured on the videos is great quality.Speed is absolutely is blazing fast... Yes it is going to face a challenge from the likes of redmi k20 pro. But it is a one plus end of the day and am 100% sure display is where k20 pro is not going to win. Also software optimization and camera is better any day on the op7 pro...Lastly, it is not about the best phone. It is about the brand value and what that can do as justice to the options you favor.\n", 'I am reviewing this smartphone after 1 month of usage. Battery standby is my only concern rest are all awesome.Pros:1) Display2) Stereo Speakers3) In-display fingerprint4) WARP ChargeCons:1) Battery stand-by could be improved2) Camera not up to the mark(but OnePlus is doing their best)\n', "Don't believe negative reviews  every thing is superb this is my 4th mobile from 1+.... Only one thing is little bit heavyweight\n", 'This phone is over hyped. I had lots of expectations. I ordered twice. But not happy using this product. OnePlus is not able to meet the expectations of mine. I am trying to refund or replace with Samsung S10\n', 'It is an average phone with a good display. Sound is good. Phone is very slippery and camera quality is poor with lacking clarity. Battery back up is average and worse than oneplus 6t. Buy op6t or op7. Do not buy op 7 pro.\n', "It is worth it. Camera was not upto the mark before update, but it has improved a lot recently. And future updates will definitely make it a great shooter.Other than that you'll love 90hz display, Fast, clean and uncluttered UI, and overall premium feel.Only issue is it is hard to find good cheap tempered glass atm and there is no official tempered glass from oneplus available yet.Overall, it is worth the money.\n", 'I am using this phone from 1 months must say this is the best smooth and fast phone i have ever used till datei think every one knows about its specs and looks so i dont need to tell about that allI just tell you about its brief battery lifeSo if you are going to use this phone for calls whatsapp and media consumption you will get 5 or 5 n half hrs of screen on time or you can increase a bit by lower the screen refresh rate and resolutionBut If you play PUBG in this mobile then it will give you max 4:30 mins SOT and if you use its fanatic mode then you will get 4 hrs of SOT if you lower its resolution and screen referesh rate then it increase a bit by 15 min or half an hours of timeYou will get Warp charger in the box which is 30w charger so you can full charge your device 1:30 hrsOve all its a gud purchase and after purchase i got 3 to 4 OTA updates and oneplus rectify its bugs and camera issues and lots of minor improvementsAlao if you are planning to buy this phone then buy one armoured case for the phone security aa phone is very slim and you can not handle without caseif budget is not your concern you can definitely go for it or else you can look for op 7ConsThe cons i have noticed is its weight,no ip rating and average battery life rest all looks perfect to me\n', 'Great product ... ultra smooth .. great build quality ... best smartphone in premium segment :)\n', 'The screen is just amazing.Noholes,notches or gimmicks just the way I like it. Nebula blue is my new favorite color.The camera is the best compared to previous OnePlus products.The battery life is short but saved by the Warp Charge.All in all , an great smartphone.\n', "Loved this phone. The features included translate into a real world excellent experience. The 8GB RAM is more than enough. Using GCam with this improves photo quality, but one plus is also putting software updates. A solid phone that's worth the money we're investing in it.\n", 'one plus 7 pro the best phone i have ever fluid amoled is awsm finger print 0.26 un lock super speed super performnce ultimate gaming experince cam super I MOSLTY LIKE THE NOTIFICATION BARS COMING IN BLUE LIGHT ON EITHER SIDES IS ULTIMATE wrap charge is also excellent 5 stars\n', "Just buy it if your budget allows. Everything is premium in this phone. Display, Camera, performance everything is great. I saw few reviews, people comparing camera with low end phones. The difference is the new AI feature with mid range phone which is just a software upgrade. AI camera images looks great but are automatically editing when clicked. This is the reason people feel some mid ranged phone phones camera are good but actually that's not. That's just a software they use.Taking that into consideration each and every thing is worth.\n", "Great product.Snappy and superfast as u will expect from a Oneplus phone.Packed with the powerful Snapdragon 855 processor.Camera also excellent especially after update.Battery life surprisingly good and that Warp Charge is ultra fast.Display is best that any smartphone can get with 1440p Oled display and refresh rate of 90 Hz which sets it apart from competition.Gaming is the best experience with this display and powerful processor. Can play PUBG on HDR and Extreme graphics without any sort of lag. Too smooth.In display fingerprint scanner is the fastest I've ever seen.10 layer cooling tech works like wonders. Its nearly impossible to get this phone too hot. Even after long periods of gaming it stays cool.\n", "I was a one plus 5t user and was fully satisfied with the quality and speed of the phone. Now I have changed to 7 pro it is visibly fast than 5t . The display is great. So far haven't faced any issues like phantom touches etc. Satisfied with the camera department as I have purchased a phone, not a DLSR . Will update if anything changes with time.\n", 'Overall experience of this phone is amazing, that display and the speed of this phone with that processor, refresh rate and Oxygen-OS work so well together, this phone is butter. Well worth the price tag, yes its expensive but it is not overpriced. Also got one year manufacturers warranty and 6 months of screen replacement protection plan. Lack of headphone jack and even the dongle is unfortunate, but I can look past it since I really love this device.\n', 'Awesome phone, everything is flagship level. Fastest phone on the planet you can buy now.\n', 'It west of money\n', "The Good The OnePlus 7 shares the Pro's powerful processor, has a great battery life and comes with a more affordable price tag. The Bad Its lack of a pop-up selfie camera and additional wide-angle lens means it's more of a marginal upgrade over last year's OnePlus 6T than a variant of the OnePlus 7 Pro\n", "This is a damn amazing phone. The video is as smooth as butter and you can somehow tell the difference between when it's running at 60Hz refresh rate and 90 Hz refresh rate. The 90 Hz refresh rate just feels much much cleaner and more absorbing. It is actually hypnotizing that's how good this phone is. You can use it for gaming and the visuals will be mind altering altogether. I was just playing Modern Combat 5 and wow what a mind bending experience it is. You can actually place yourself in the thick of battle with the chaos all around you. I have also played other games like temple runner etc. and they run like butter. Overall, very very very happy with this amazing phone and highly recommend it to anyone for any purpose whatsoever.\n", "It is not a good product as we expected it is not Reaching the expectations it is one of the worst phone in its battery and by paying a large amount the finger print doesn't work properly and there was no response for our issue till 15 days still now no response was thereThe display will get lagged like hell\n", 'You cannot  distinguish between a screen off and black wall paper . Both seem same . Color detailing is even better than best.\n', 'Best one to buy now ., all features present, wifi wireless charging can be icing on the cake ., still not much required . highly satisfies\n', 'I have previously used Ones plus two version.One Plus 7 Pro is a good mobile. Why to buy?:a. Screenb. Oxygen OSc. SoundWhat can be improved?a. Camera (picture quality is not at par with Google Pixel)b. Missing wireless charging (not a deal breaker)c. socket for headphones (not a deal breaker)d. Weight and gripAnnoying thing?Such a good/excellent phone. But poor work by company attaching display protector screen, You open box of new phone and first thing you see is bubbles inside screen protector. One plus group should change the vendor\n', 'ProsGood CameraGood ScreenEnough storageSpeaker- OkConsUI- Nothing great, MIUI has more functionality and ease of useBattery- Be ready to carry a charger or power bank alwaysDash charge- no good due to  super dash discharge12 Gb RAM- makes no differenceSummary- It is an overhyped phone by the One plus community with fancy terms like clean software , some phones above 15000r are better VFM. Give it a miss. Would like to return. My old phone was Mi Max 1.\n', 'This device is a beast. But please do consider that it is thicker and taller then previous generations. Also bit on a heavier side.. you will get used to it though.Performance wise its definitely top of the evolution chain.If you want top of the line fast phone this one is for you. If not then the next one starts at 20k+ more in Samsung s10 plus with ugly puch hole display. So choose wisely.\n', 'touch stops functioning while using the camera, so contacted amazon customer service they asked me to do a factory reset, as the factory reset was done now when I on the camera it just appear a black display... 😥😥😥\n', 'Garbage Phone oF the year .  i think redmi note 7 pro Better than OP7pro.n Big prblm touch is Not working in 6 days use of phone...\n', 'Product is awesome... There is nothing to say bad about product... But delivery was not that good.. They said guaranteed delivery but they lated the product\n', 'amazing design and display quality.facelock,fingerprint lock super.performance is terrible.battery is not bad.white balance of the camera is little bad.anyway nice product.i really liked it.OnePlus give me an amazing product.\n', "Awesome phone! I waited 6 months and it was worth everything. Thankgod I didn't buy Samsung S10 series.. Really got lucky. Now I'm a one plus fan.. thanks one plus for wonder Device ❤️\n", 'I am facing lot of echo problem. After paying 53k this was not expected from One Plus Family. Disappointed.\n', 'Amazingly quick phone, was under some doubts when i read the reviews which were negative about this phone while the overall rating was better then 4 star! All doubts cleared though as i have been using it since last week.I have cut one star because i believe it can improve further on camera and fingerprint sensitivity as well as few tweaks in software (like u cant seperately lower down notification volume); otherwise, it is a phone to have in 50k range!\n', "I am writting this review after extensively using this phone for more than two weeks. Let's divide it in pros and cons.Pros-1- One of the best feature of this phone is it's Display.  It's Quad HD display is one of the best in the market and at par with the likes of S10, iPhone series.2- The curved display gives a brilliant overall premium look and practicality to this phone. The curve is so subtle that it kind of flows in the phone and gives you a better grip.3-  90hz refresh rate is like you slipping I'm butter. It's is so smooth that you will feel odd using other mobiles. You can feel the difference as soon as you pick this phone.4- After the camera update all bugs are gone now and the picture quality you are getting at this price is brilliant and on par with likes of Samsung and iPhone. You just have to change the camera settings to get the best out of it. There are 1000 plus videos to guide you through it.5- Stereo Speaker, A person who has used One plus before will understand what a drastic improvement one plus has done on sound quality. It's is loud, it's is crisp and any audiophile will like it.6- Call quality. Cellular call quality and reception is good with this phone. There is no lag or anything with this device.7- Built quality- The phone is premium looking, well built beast. No flaws or air gaps you can find and it gives you an confidence when you hold it in your hands.Cons-1-  First I have to right this. There are so many reviews for this phone giving 1 star and stating that they have seen on YouTube that it comes with a headphone and they didn't receive it. I mean this  is heights of stupidity guys. Firstly, in description only it is clearly mentioned what all comes with the phone and secondly youtubers get a review unit which is totally different from a retail unit. One cannot judge a phone on this particular thing.2- Battery- So you have a big battery here and with a moderate to heavy media use it will last you to 12-14 hours.This includes 2-3 hours callingSocial media consumptionStreaming sites consumption ( as World Cup in going on and we want India to win)So, battery will give you above average use but it is definitely not bad. Morey, one can change the 90hz refresh rate setting to 60hz and Qhd to Hd setting if you want more battery life, but again what's the fun here.3- 3.5 mm headphone jack- So I was one of guys who was really disappointed with this move of removing 3.5 mm jack. But, after getting this phone I got good Bluetooth headphone and I understood that what I was missing. Sound quality wise the opinion is divided among people as some say you get better sound quality over Bluetooth and some say it is better with 3.5 mm headphone jack. But, the kind of freedom you get with wireless device is way way better. And after you get a wireless earbuds or headphone you will understand that it is way better than wired ones. So, personally this is not a con for me now.4- weight- Phone is definitely heavy when you compare to other phones. But, you will get use to it. And after some time you will feel more confident with the weight of this phone while handling. It is not an issue.Conclusion- So one plus was a brand which use to kill the flagships of the year and now it has created a flagship of its own. We should understand this that usually a flagship phone which we get from Samsung or Apple at 70-80k, here we are getting it for 50k. This phone gives you all the premium features at a lesser price than its competitors.So, if you have a budget of around 50k. You should go for this phone without even thinking twice definitely it's flagship of the year with the price point it comes. Just go for it guys!!!!!!\n", "Lets not start a paragraph & jumping into pros & cons :PRO'S ;Screen : The screen is really impressive & the slight curved edges are adding an awesome impression every time you look at the display .Speed : It has 0 lag . Currently I am using op7 pro 8Gb variant & it runs without any lag till now .Have played games like pubg & asphalt but it runs smooth & fast without any issues .Also no major heating issues has been observed even after running pubg for more than 2 hours .Camera : Its a next generation camera which I have not experienced before . The low light images are mind blowing & can compare with any DSLR . The AI camera quickly adopts to any scene automatically & switches its mode . Landscape photography even at night seems pretty awesome .The front camera is pretty much realistic & will give a genuine image without much beauty or skin smoothing effect . (Those can be added externally if you wish) .Fingerprint / Face unlock : Works more than fine .Battery : Really awesome . gives around 6 hours of Screen on time with constant FB / Messenger / insta / you tube stream / 2 hrs of pubg on high graphics . Without gaming you can have 8 hours of S.O.T without any doubtAdd on : It has horizon lightning instead of notification LED . Every time you receive a notification the edge will glow up . It looks quite premium & stylish .Delivery & packing : Within a single day without any issue .CON'S :The phone is quite heavy compared to my previous one plus 5 . It really pains the fist if you grab it single handed for long time as its 208 gm . (Still you can manage it I believe as its not a thor's hammer ).No notification LED . Instead of that ambient display & horizon lightning is there but still i prefer the edge old notification LED .No 3.5 mm jack . You can buy a type c to 3.5 mm converter spending 250 rs more from Amazon  .No more cons . Overall its a performance phone with a premium look , holding it you can stand out of the crowd & can make yourself an attraction point :)\n", 'This is my first one plus phone..I bought this phone for display,speed,storage.. I am satisfied with all these three things..added advantage is a camera..over all the infinite display is awesome,speed is super and storage is 256gb..Love this phone..Battery charging is faster..it has warp charging feature..once charged can use for a day..I will give 3.7/5 for  battery..\n', "Bought this phone for my sister. As expected this is an amazing phone and has every feature one could expect. Battery life is almost a day (sometimes even more). Camera clarity is amazing. One thing I didn't like about this series is that OnePlus hasn't released tempered glass for it yet and every other tempered glass is just not good enough.\n", "Mobile is excellent and display is superb... I can't find much difference between 90Hz and 60Hz refresh rate.. battery is draining Very fast ..one plus must work on it.pop up camera is awesome..for face unlock it unlocks with in a blink even we cant find the camera moving up and going inside..back camera OnePlus claims 48 MP , but images taken are same as one plus 6t cam . which is 20mp...finally one can go for one plus 7 Pro if they are affordable for 50k bucks , one who wants to enjoy popup camera..display is really super .\n", "The phone definitely looks great due to its big screen, 90Hz refresh rate and QHD+ display. But it sincerely lags in Camera department even after updates. Video Recording, Voice Recording are great but i am not sure for some reason pics from its front camera just looks average and lacks true colors. Infact, my previous phone Redmi Note5 Pro used to click better selfies. Battery drains quickly if you use 90Hz refresh rate and QHD+ display. Luckily, it has a warp charging adapter with it. Although, the phones gives you premium feel at a premium price but One Plus should look into the Camera Software updates. It's no where near to that of Pixel, Note series or Huwaei premium phones in terms of camera. Except for camera, this phone is a rockstar.\n", "It's extraordinary, only thing which is lagging when compared to Apple and pixel phones is camera. Nonetheless camera are also really good. Not to mention batter life is also good but not spectacular. Major pros of this phone are Display, performance, software, build quality and charging speed which is on another level. Over all very satisfying experience with this product. Well done OnePlus ! And I still miss the headphones jack !\n", 'Review after eight days of heavy use:Blazing fast.Fabulous screen.No heating.Transfer 25 GB of data from leptop in just 15 minutes .ConsBit heavy and uncomfortable for one hand use.Except it definitely buy it\n', "Writing this review after 1.5 monthSo guys the 90hz screen the best part you will definitely call in love with it from the day one it's buttery smooth with sd 855 man it's a beast playing HD games feels great on this phone.Charging is also fast ever morning I plug my device and I get my device all juiced up before leaving office in about an hour.Although it has no 3.5 mm headphone jack but you can go for Bluetooth headphones or buy the c type bullets available at OnePlus website (they are awesome) or but the connector available at OnePlus website, so stop making a fuss about 3.5 mm jack (u are spending around 50k here, go buy a decent headphone too).Camera after the updates improved a lot and now pictures are quite good, still there are some issues with lowlight photos but in proper light the photos are good. Front camera selfie is also good no issues with that.Overall a nice phone, a bit overpriced (after looking at the price of k20 pro 😛) but yes it's still the flagship killer and way better than many of it's competitors.\n", 'I am going to write a short review...The packaging and the delivery was fast got the product 2days before delivery date..thanx to amazon.Coming to the product,For me the screen which is quad hd display along with 90hz refresh rate was the main reason i choose the phone.. Display(9.5/10)Battery backup depends on the purpose you are using the phone for, for heavy usage it should last around 7 hours and in light to medium usage it should last for a whole day.. Battery(7.5/10)Camera is the weakness that one plus devices have been facing the most..but thanx to the software updates and good software optimisation the camera is now good although if you are looking for a camera centric phone this is not the phone u are looking for.. Camera(7/10)Special Note- This is not the best phone but with all the hardware and software optimisation this is the perfect balance that one plus has achieved and i must say that the display only is enough to blow you away...hope this helps you.\n', 'I think best phone in #2019 from One plus. I also exchange my one plus 6 to one plus 7 pro blue colour 12gb ..  I can tell it with 100% believe that you can choose it to close you eyes\n', "Almond colour is a showstopper, OnePlus has indeed showcased their masterpiece in terms of overall built (perfection). The in-display fingerprint reader is insanely fast, in my opinion it's on par with traditional one's. Yes, the camera could use some work but I feel it's nothing an OTA can't fix (at least the hardware is strong to handle future fixes). The game changer for OnePlus is the DISPLAY, it is just gorgeous with QHD and 90hz panel (a visual treat indeed). Last but not the least, performance from the core chipset and the delivery by oxygen OS is right where you'd expect SUPERIOR. Gaming, scrolling through apps, movies, songs everything is just so different on OnePlus 7 pro. I really can't imagine going back to a regular 60hz panel anymore. Excellent job OnePlus, we are now a true Flagship Killer!!!\n", "I didn't find anything that appreciable in this phone other than it's premium look..I have been using this phone since 3 months and I can say that buying this device is really a waste of money. The scenario becomes more worst due to its poor backup and fast battery draining..could you believe that it's battery dropped to 20% from 70% in just one and a half hours. I needed to charge this phone multiple times a day, the wrap charger gives some relief for it charges super-fastly. If I talk about it's camera quality, it is just average..often the pictures get blurred and I don't understand why the hell it is so.. Absence of ear-phone jack makes the situation more worse. Finger sensor too often not works..I needed to put finger 3-4 times then it recognizes the finger..I haven't expected such a low from one plus, a higher version should have greater experience ..but such a premium phone in such a premium price has been proved a waste of money..I m really disappointed with this phone..\n", 'Simply the best deal in the Android world right now. Stupendously quick and delightful performance! Forget all the reviews saying average battery life, I get 7 hours with 90 hz, qhd+, wifi and location on all the time.Love the nebula blue gradient. And the screen, o my god! What a treat.\n', 'Camera quality is very poor. Being a premium phone, the One Plus brand did not pay much attention on primary camera. The primary camera comes with 16MP, but the resolution is not as expected. The selfies taken by MI is far better then the one captured by this phone. The One Plus brand should take this feedback very seriously and try to fix it up by providing some updated camera software updates.Very much disappointed as far as camera is concerned.The package lacks the Type C USB to audio jack converter. The One Plus should take up this feedback and include the one in the pack.As far as battery back up is concerned, it is very good. Luckily I did not get carried away by other reviews on Amazon :).\n', 'Camera quality has been improved drastically over the last few updates.The device feels premium.The indisplay fingerprint is preety fast.The warp charge is very quick and oxygen is feels smooth as butter.Preety good deal for the price if comes to S10+ which cost around 70k mark.\n', "A killer flagship !!Display is out of the world with this 90hz panel. It feels buttery smooth.The warp charge is mind-blowing. It could get me to a full charge in an hour.Finger print reader is pretty accurate and also the pop up face unlock is a head turner.Audio quality,Call quality,Video quality,Ram management,Network Coverage all are as expected and is perfect.The camera is kind of good, I mean the primary 48mp and the 16 mp pop up camera are great to use, but the wide angle and telephoto do need a lot of improvements. The portrait mode could also be a bit improved.The battery is not terrible, but should carry around the charger if travelling for a day.The phone is pretty huge and heavy, but don't know if that's much of a big deal.Overall a futuristic smartphone with pretty descent value for money. I definitely bought this device over the regular one plus 7 for the screen and it's obviously worth it. Add a warp charge that can give a full charge in about an hour, a very satisfying haptic feedback, a definite head turner popup cam, triple cam setup and it's very much a value for money flagship !!\n", 'Premium Look.... Nebula Blue variant i stunning...\n', "Will keep it concise & helpful:Oneplus has successfully manufactured a device, very capable in almost every aspect; here are the pros and cons though:Pros:1. Sturdy & beautiful built2. Immersive screen(even at 60Hz its beautiful, 90Hz just takes it to the next level)3. Loud sound & crisp, clear voice( in voice calls)4. Blazing fast...Never hangs or freezes...5. Camera hardware is top notch!6. Perfect weight distribution, feels so great to even hold it.Cons:Battery's just an average performerFingerprint reader takes a few days/weeks to calibrate.Camera software should be tweaked and improved, hardware has a lot of potential\n", 'At this the price is little bit high but the quality of phone is awesome. Seems like premium one. Overall the phone is awesome. Front camera is good compared to S10 Plus.\n', "Camera is awesome. Display couldn't be any better. Processor is good. A bit big screen to handle. Finger print sometimes doesn't recognize. Very smooth to operate. Only drawback is the battery. It drains a lot for 4000 mah capacity. It will still last around 24 hours without games.\n", "Phone is excellent but there are some cons also which are 1) No Earphone (only Bluetooth)2) Warp charging doesn't work ... For me in 20min it charge only 35%Battery backup is also not that great while playing games.\n", "The phone is good but there are too much software issues in OnePlus 7 pro feeling very bother on purchase of 7pro. This problem is not solved until the developer's team of OnePlus do something too much software issue in this device. Finally waiting for good and stable updates.\n", 'I am not happy because oneplus 7 Pro is not good for me because this one very bad experience in my sideBefore I am using all oneplus mobile it will also super for me camera quality and battery life fingerprint also super but oneplus 7pro not goodI am sorry I am not happy because waste my money and waste my time this is my last oneplus brand mobile purchasing I am not purchasing another time in my life\n', "The product is phenomenal....It just blew my mindI definitely recommend you to go for this product.I think it's better to go for this product than Apple iPhone XR , cause it has only 64GB rom.Pros:1) Speed2) Display with no notch3) Classy look4) 90Hz refresh rate makes it buttery smooth5) UFS 3.06) Warp charge7) Stereo speakersCons:1) The phone is slippery without case2) The pre-installed scrath guard is not of a good quality..I would recommend to change it soonThere's not much of a con in this amazing device\n", "This phone is best till date from OnePlus.Camera quality - 4/5Battery life - 3.5/5Display - 5/5Fingerprint reader - 5/5Performance - 5/5The 90 Hz display is just awesome but consumes more battery, and it's worth it. Camera could have been better but I'm overall satisfied with the camera because I believe it's not about the tools when it comes to photography.The infinite curved display with stereo speakers give the best viewing experience when it comes to watching movies / series on the phone.Simply, go for it.\n", 'The phone as usual is very very good. Great display..good battery.. awesome camera..pubg play is very very smooth. The only disappointment was that there waa no type c to 3.5 mm dongle. I had to buy separately for 800 bucks.\n', 'NO HEATING PROBLEM..BUTTERY SMOOTH..INSANELY FAST..SUPERFAST CHARGING..AWSOME CAMERA..THE BLUE BEAST..🤟😎\n', "Adaptable usage, captivating screen presence, amiable towards eyes, diligent software, and a phenomenal experience using this phone. Heck, I'm even reading e-books( never read a book before btw) online, that's how fun the screen refresh rate is helping me with. Yes camera needs some work, but hey they did a good job.The only set back(in a way) is, I was dreading to get almond(8gb,256), and settled for grey(6 GB, 128).. because almond is not available in 6gb and when i checked my ram usage recently, i was only using 4.5gb of 6gb with 62 apps. 8gb would be an over kill, so not really a set back.\n", "Well it has been more than a week since I got this beast it's screen quality is pretty good phone overall looks r also good only thing I feel bit disappointed is it's camera camera has some features but overall it's not good for a phone that comes in a premium segment . Camera lacks the punch that a premium phone needs  in compare to this even I phone xr camera is amazing I wish they could have worked a bit on camera performance nightmode doesn't looks good at all even when u try a moving shot it's not up to the mark details get lossed colours don't look vibrent\n", 'Got a faulty screen... Thanks Amazon for a delayed but complete replacement.After abt 2 weeks...Great device at its price. 90hz display and 1440p at hdr are very battery hungry... Also to protect the oleds... max brightness is controlled in manual brightness setting. Auto brightness may help in broad daylight but may burn the oled with prolonged periods of usage.Rest is all good performance, speakers, charging.No heat issues even with full performance gaming.Included case is very cheapish in appearance.\n', "Don't waste your money buying this... One plus 7 is better than 7 pro\n", "Just getting use to of its supersonic speed. Excellent build quality with the Qualcomm snapdragon 855 processors. Triple wide angle lenses gives you a variety of choices without making it much difficult for naive like me. It's a better deal than any other flagship phone.\n", 'Top spec premium mobile in less price. Ultra smooth experience with 90hz refresh rate.\n', "The phone is so good, I don't see myself upgrading to another phone in the next 4-5 years.The design language of this phone is futuristic.The pop-up front facing camera is James bond/Ethan hunt status.*(Not to worry about its durability)*The battery life is sufficient even for general useAnd lastly them specs 👍👍Look at the pictures for the camera quality and judge it for yourself. For me this camera will hold up for a long time.*(They are not edited)**(Refering to the model with the 12GB ram and 256GB storage, if this shows up in review for the other models, but should still apply for them as well.)*\n", "Amazing device that's worthy of all the attention it can get from anyone looking at it. You'll instantly fall in love with the display and the speed of the device. Exceptional build quality and design. 100% Flagship level device with no compromises, given the price. Extremely delighted to be using this mobile.\n", "It's very bad experience for me. I am not sure about camera and battery life.  Because the very first day when I was trying to do device set up it got locked and I couldn't not unlock it by any means.  Amazon sent the technician for it to be fixed.  But it was really an unpleasant experience.  Really I feel like this phone is not worth buying by spending a huge amount. It's a dabba phone.\n", "The phone is one of the best in the market worth the price. The only complain is it's to heavy 4G only in Indian market, lake in wireless charging, can have a better battery capacity. Also kind of a need suit for PC for better connectivity. Overall a good phone in market at present. Feels premium to use especially for people upgrading from xiaomi MIUI to OnePlus.\n", 'Wireless bullets can give for 12gb ram 58,000/- paying customers. You are simply avoiding...\n', "Display is awesome. Buttery smooth touch. Samsung's display looks better cz of the color vividness and saturation. But this one is one of the best display. Processor? 855 sd no need to say more about it. Sound is supergood but still searching for earphones suitable with this device. Just disappointed with the camera. Wide angle is just useless as it has lower angle of view and when you zoom into clicked image its blurry. Same with normal pic. It looks good until you zoom. Pics clicked are not sharp they r soft and blurry. Even redmi phone 15k priced clicks sharper pics than this. 4k 60fps video is certainly something it saves this phone as clarity is really superb. Battery backup is below average for the price you are paying for this device but super fast charging makes up for it.\n", 'What an amazing premium phone, the colour, the build quality, the big curve screen, the speed, battery everything is perfect. I am a oneplus fan. I have been using oneplus 2, oneplus 3 and now directly jumped into 7pro and the oneplus 3 is still running smoothly. Its undoubtedly the flagship killer at this price.\n', "Proximity Sensor stopped working within 10 days of arrival. Fingerprint sensor is not at all quick. Battery life is pathetic. Speakers have some aberration coming out of them. Phone heats up all the time. I don't understand the point of launching a costly phone with lower performance.\n", 'I got Nebula Blue 8GB variant. Awesome speed with matching 90hz smoothness. Camera quality needs improvement (I hope they will improve camera quality in future OTA updates). Battery life is pretty good. I play Pubg and Asphalt and battery lasts for a day. Display so buttery smooth that I cant take my eyes off it.Fingerprint sensor is way too fast.Very happy with overall performance of the phone.Can be improved:Camera qualityBack case. Default one looks like cheap one and destroys overall look of the phone.Default screen guard. (dust magnet)\n', "2 months on and the experience has been great so far. Whether it's about taking pictures or watching that high-res video song is just a matter of pure indulgence. Totally in love with the 90 Hz Display that gives videos and live wallpapers an extra fluid factor. Camera quality is superb and the overall processor response is like overwhelmingly good. Initially there were some lags with opening of the camera those are not present now after the updates. Kudos to the OnePlus Team for giving a nice finish to the exterior look and overall aesthetics of the Phone. True Notch-less Experience that is worth owning.\n", 'Hi, I bought this 10 days ago, one plus 7 pro has wonderful fingerprint reader, especially camera quality is excellent ( pop up front camera is very fast ) , battery life is very good and last one ICICI instant discount of 2000... Overall wonderful\n', "I had an option of getting the S10+ or the OP 7 Pro. Glad I went for the latter. Firstly, I do not spend big bucks on a phone for camera. I base my purchases on a phone for the performance and the speed.  Even though the camera is not as good as S10+  the OP 7 Pro makes up for it by having notchless display and 90 Hz. When people say there's hardly any difference  between 60 Hz and 90 Hz it is not true.  I also went for 12 Gb option so this helps battery draining apps to run in the background. Only issue is the battery does not meet my expectations and the whole charge barely lasts 18 hours.\n", 'Everything is superb ....minor changes needed....battery life could be better but good as compared to the display size and quality.....the dispaly and camera are the best one....Get a major issue with the device.....its get swtich off as i connect it to charging......one month review.....i really hate one plus now.....first one plus device may be the last one tooo.....\n', 'Product is as per description. Screen guard had bubble. Camera quality is good.Battery when charged 100% will run full day. Speed is good.\n', 'My most loved android till date. I’m using Samsung galaxy s10 plus too. But One Plus 7 Pro is a gem in 57k. It will beat all the android phones heads down.Design, Screen, Speed and Battery are too impressive.This phone is too fast. Just loving it.\n', 'Good\n', "No headphones wired or wireless... Big miss for any flagship phone provider. Horrible ram management. What's the point of having a 8 gb ram when you can only utiliez only 2 gb at a time. Company is holding on to the 12gb ram version and Nubia red magic 3 is just around the conner. I think that is going to be a better phone then this..  wish I could return this and buy the nudia red magic 3\n", 'Hear is a honest review! OnePlus 7 ProThe phone looks amazing.1. No Notch2. Great build quality3. Big screen and amazing quality.However the flaws1. Heavy2. Curved display looks good but a little weird to watch videos on.Performance is great.Battery is bad but charges fast. (4-5 hours max screen on time)Camera is so so. Very slow and takes ok photos. Selfie camera is great. Camera takes good photos outside with lots of light.Also the phone heats up if heavily used outside with full brightness.\n', 'This product was for gaming and speed camera not good battery life is not good over hipped phone is this not a valu for money phone u go and buy OnePlus 7 is bettar than this  .samsung s10plus better than this phone i have s10 plus also\n', 'Loved the camera. High speed gaming. 90hz refresh rate makes video watching smooth. Overall great. But you need to charge the photo every day. But charging is super fast. If you have a budget of 50K then go for this phone.\n', 'Great cameraAwesome performanceone of the best Displayawsm & loud Dolby Atmos soundButtery smooth performance.but need to  software update in wide angle camera, finger print scanner.otherwise phone is just killing\n', "Rest of the Mobile features and hole is perfect but the body aur side rim is fading it's polish I'm very disappointed towards one plus brand I never aspect that this band can have defects I have even gon to to service centre to show them but they to told me buck of crap all this and that and u have to change the screen and it would be charged I have. Used it's product for one month and facing a problem and they can't even solve it they told me that told me that the polishing of body doesn't get covered in warranty\n", 'This is my first one plus device and I am quite impressed with the quality of the phone, however I faced an issue where the camera app kept crashing for which I rebotted the device and the issue got solved. I hope that is just a temporary glitch. The portrait mode works only in telephoto mode and is quite annoying for indoor photography. Hope we get a software update for this. battery charging is very fast and last for a day very comfortably.\n', "No need to mention specs here. It's a classy phone and my search for a good phone ended here. Now only time I will buy a new phone will be when 5G us totally used in india. Till then it is this OP7 PRO. really good phone.\n", "Don't go by the media uplift of the product. It's not worth the money. Still need a lot of software updation, new issues are arising as one is getting solved. Camera is not so great as they say. But looks good & feels good too so if you don't care about small issues then go for it who am I to stop you?\n", 'The mobile is overall very good,but needs improvement in camera,especially night mode camera...trust me its completely useless... you will not be able to click any pics in night mode,where there is no aur very dim light...and if u will ignore the camera than i guess it is the best set now you can purchase at this price,also almond colour is very pretty....touch is awesome,speed is fantastic,features are more than enough...loved the set\n', 'The phone is really fast. The animations are smooth. No lag whatsoever. I upgraded from note 9 and so far liking the experience. The screen is big and no notch. Colour caliberations is very good. My battery life is on par with note 9. I get around 4.5-5 hours of screen time with moderate usage and at the end of the day I end up with 35-40 percentage charge left. The only drawback I feel is lack of headphone jack. Also, no headphone provided in the package ☹️.\n', 'Fingerprint reader is good but in sometimes its not accepting , using temper and scratch cards has a poor performance in fingerprint, back camera is good as i expected but iam not satisfied with front camera this is not a phone for selfie. Battery life is very poor only 5 hours standby\n', 'Heavy.... Uninspiring design.... Below par camera.... Display far from Samsung S 10.... Refresh rate is fluid. Otherwise a lot of hype.\n', "After using for a couple of months, the phone has started hang at moments and to my surprise being such a premium product it has the worst fingerprint reader I have ever experienced. At times you might get fed up of constantly replacing your finger so as to when the damn phone will read it correctly. In terms of camera there can't be a better competitor to this phone, it's just awesome. The battery life is also ok but not up to the mark.\n", 'Too highly priced...Poor BatteryNot a value for money product\n', "It's just like a beast. It was definitely worth buy. At the initial stage I thought camera was disappointing but with quick back to back two updates they filled the gap. Speed is like bullet. Everything comes in perfect.My only concern after theseany days of usage is better. I understand one plus 7 pro is offering 90hz refresh rate plus bigger display. But still I think batter life could have been better.\n", 'Best in class, but has to improve a lot in camera department.  Leaving a picture taken with 7 pro, OnePlus.\n', '1.after 4k videos watching this phone with not satisfide,,because display colour is very vibrant and dark red colour very highlight on every videos.2.camera pop-up is slow up and down,,not perfming like unboxing videos on youtube.3.on display finger not faster as like videos shown by youtuber.4.perfomance is good.5.Camera Quality is not good as like 48mp camera in that phone.6.Sound quality is poor. even dual speaker in this mobile.\n', "As i am a oneplus fanI am disappointedBattery is a very major issue in oneplus 7 pro1. charging my phone 2 times a day2. heating problemAnd i've been using oneplus since oneplus 5i can tell you that even while charging phone never  got heated before.All i can say is it depends on your usagei get 6 hours on screen timefor others an hour or two might add but still not worth it.\n", 'One plays has come a long way from being a flagship killer to be itself a flagship device. Loved the phone.l build quality design. Was confused between s10plus and this phone. Glad I chose one plus 7 pro.\n', "Quite the stunner in terms of looks and feel. Premium doesn't begin to capture it. The 90 Hz refresh rate is simply awesome. The oxygen os is superior to stock android. Battery life is sufficient for a day of moderate use. The 30 w warp speed charge is sensational..50% in 20 mins is wow. Camera is very good but not the best. On the whole, it's met expectations and then some.\n", 'Overall I am very happy with the phone, excellent display and battery life. The only disappointment was in the fifth day of using the phone the selfie camera got stuck and phone was dead after that. Had to do a hard reset after that. That is the reason why I gave a 4 star for the camera.\n', 'With the 7 Pro, OnePlus takes a huge step towards establishing itself as a mass market player. The new OnePlus flagship has an excellent display, offers assuring battery mileage, has improved cameras, and delivers perhaps the best performance on the Android side of the table.\n', "Overall the phone is awesome, as mentioned by OnePlus it's the speed you need this phone actually delivers the speed you need. But somethings are not upto the mark such as it's fingerprint sensor many a times it does not work properly and does not recognize the fingerprint, camera is not upto the mark as expected by a phone worth ₹53000/- and battery life is more or less okay I haven't felt like charging it again before going to sleep.\n", 'I have been using OnePlus devices for the past 3 years and I like everything about their phone specially the Oxygen OS. Battery life is well improved in this one including the camera and after a few updates camera is really awesome.\n', 'Sometimes the mobile gets blinking in blue colour and also getting noise in both the right and left side edges while making incoming or outgoing calls. It is making irritation. Kindly advise to rectify such technical issues\n', 'Camera still not upto mark, even after 9.5.7 update..... Secondly the phone is somewhat heavy.....Otherwise a good product, nice display, extra smooth OS due to 90Hz , and good battery life\n', "Awesome Phone Really Enjoying it, it's the only one in the Display but rest also is very premium loving it and afcourse thanks to Amazon for such a fast and promt Delivery.\n", 'The camera just got worse. Videos are fine but images are completely messed up. Not upto the mark as the hype. Overly exaggerated curved screen that only interferes with the vision due to excessive glare\n', "Fastest android phone there is. Few bugs here and there but Oneplus are quick to rectify. Battery life couldve been better but can't complain with that super fast Warp charging. Camera is good enough to take great social media worthy shots.\n", 'One plus 7 pro is the ultimate phone till now, its camera clearity is awsum splclly while zooming, the best thing of this phone is its pop-up and its edged screen(best), quality wise oneplus is always ahead of all and is battery life is best100/100 marks for this phone\n', "In my opinion One plus 7 pro is the best smart phone in 2019 ....the best part of this phone is display ..just wow .... and also it's perform like a king .. that's means it's smoothness ....u will fell when u will use it ...and I am sure about it after using one plus 7 pro .... when u come back to any other Android device u will miss the smoothness and the special part 90hz refresh rate I am sure about it .....it is a best choice .....\n", 'Really blazing fast!\n', 'Just love it, 90Hz Refresh rate is pretty epic. One of the best screens I ever used on a Smartphone. Such a huge display with so good colours and everything is pretty good. This feels like a futuristic smartphone. Looking for more phones like this. Only downside would be the front camera which beautifies everything. Not good for video calling, Other than that selfies are still dope. <3\n', 'The product does not have a earphone with it. Recorder is not good. Camera and speed of processing is excellent\n', "Bought this phone on 10th september  but screen got died on 12 days later.. Photo has been attached herewith.. Couldn't  replace the item as well because  the return date expired on 19th september.. Now contacted Oneplus care and they informed they it will be pick up by tomorrow and deliver the same after 1 week..Note : other than this problem, the phone performace is good, best camera as well as good battery backup..\n", 'The phone is a amazing Flagship at such a price. Its truly a flagship killer when compared to an iphone or a Samsung S series at half the price. The is remarkable for its performance and UI all thanks to Oxygen OS and the refresh rate is the best overall. But it still lags that "on point" factor for a phone photographer. The battery has its limitations due to its 90hz refresh rate. But last for a day or two on a normal usage.\n', "Phone looks great. Phone is bit bigger but that's ok. I wish it would have been of 6 inches just like iPhone. The curved display is super cool. The camera quality is amazing.CONS:1) Battery life. Phone lasts for atmost 6.5hrs of continuous usage.2) Price should have been around 42K. 49K is a huge amount.3) Phone is a bit heavy. One plus should try to minimise the weight.\n", 'Worth every single rupee. I have observed that other brands tends to get slower and laggy  with the time. First few months all looks good but things changes with time .This is not the case with OPO. Its buttery smooth and keeps going like that . I am a OPO user since first generation of this brand and never faced any issue of any kind with one plus.\n', "It's Display is excellent. Camera and Battery is good. I am using it for my personal use, for wating tv streams, youtube, browsing  and other social media apps.It's really butter smooth...I am Happy.\n", "Like- 1)display resolution,2) pop up camera,3)super speed processer,4)Dolby sound,5) fast fingerprint and face unlock.6)Curved edge.7) wrap chargingDislike-1) battery life2) wireless charging3) No headphones4) cost  of phone5) phone doesn't support remote app like peel remote for all the electronics devices\n", "The Perfect Smartphone.Fluid AMOLED display with the 90Hz refresh rate makes the phone buttery smooth.Snapdragon 855 makes sure to maintain the balance between performance and day to day tasks.Warp Charge doesn't make you miss Wireless charging as the charging speeds are just insane.Overall. This is a perfect Smartphone for anyone.\n", "The phone is buttery smooth. No question on the performance side at all. Haven't got any lage issue yet. The battery life is too good and to be honest o didn't expect it to be this good. In one charge it will give you battery life for 1 and half day and in case if your mobile data is off it will give you 2 days and this is a real time experience. And the display is the main attractions of the phone.\n", 'Good phone 👍, worth to buy if looking for premium. OnePlus should give better cover with phone, the transparent cover degrades the premium austhetic look. The rest is fantastic.\n', 'Before oneplus 7, we purchased note 10+ a week ago and in comparison between op7 and note10+, the clear title winner is note10+. There is no comparison between these two.. if one can spend 52 k he can also spend 60k. Just go for note 10+ and feel the difference\n', 'This Phone is Nothing great. Finger scanner is troubling, processing is surprisingly slow despite 8 GB ram, screen is not responsive enough on auto rotate, Bluetooth is troubling. It makes it compulsory to have a Bluetooth headset since normal headsets are not supported. I was happy using 1+5. The speaker of the phone is gone. Unable to use the phone on speaker phone in less than 3 months\n', 'Nice phone with best configuration. Camera quality is not so good as expected but may be 1+ will release any update for the same.\n', 'The item worked for just 3 days i have order on 8th aug 2019 but frong camera stopped poping up suddenly. Amazon will not take of replacement as well they are not borthered about coustmer they will not follow time lines and no update after taking too long time\n', 'One of the best looking quality smartphones in the market!!!! Camera quality is not as expected but that can be resolved with some software tweaks\n', 'Great design. The camera department could have been better in the day light. But is exceptional during low light conditions. All the other issues including the camera can be fixted through software updates. I hope OnePlus is on their toes to fix these minor issues.\n', '\xa0Very much satisfied with this product but some part is not much satisfactory. Delivery service is not good. I have scheduled my delivery on next day of my order. But delivery person compelled me to pick the order before 1 pm. Otherwise it will not be possible to deliver the same day.\n', "Display. Just buy it for the gorgeous 90hz display. The rest specs is offered by others as well. Just blindly buy for the display. Once you use it. You'll never wanna use anything else.\n", 'Fingerprint is superb, working smoothly.Camera quality is worse as compared to One plus 3t, At this price segment camera needs lots of improvement ,also battery charging is outstanding but should work on backup accordingly to such price segment...\n', 'Phone box corners are damaged, like it slipped many a times. I had ordered it as birthday gift and afraid if birthday person find anything damaged inside. :(Will share phone experience once opened.\n', "1. After having 3 camera's in phone, it is not able to properly focus on nearby items.2. My phone slider button is very loose, it just look like it will only work max one month.These 2 points disappoints me after spending more that half lack ruppees mobile.\n", "Touch screen is super. While using touch screen I feel like writing in air.Fast response in finger print reader.Camera quality is ok.We cannot comment on performance. It's superb. Price is too much.ConsInitially I had a software problem while calling and camera. Then they had fixed.Very slippery and Difficult to use in single hand.\n", "\xa0Gifted it to my wife , and now while using my POCO F1 I'm one jealous husband ! Immensely beautiful display , flawless performance , premium looks and what not !\n", 'One of the best phone I have ever used.Superb screen specially edge.Great cameraBatteryPerformanceEverything is goodEven in this the indisplay finger print is fast than 6t\n', 'What a product from such an aweson company ... Just all I want to say keep the up the good work ups good product ups aweson product... Simply in love with this device... Big congratulations to one plus tech team you need big bow....\n', 'I am using this phone for last 20 days.Performance of phone is marvelous as well as camera is good as compare to other flagship phones in this range, stability in video is quite good.Overall phone is packed will all necessary things we need in aphone from speed to battery and camera to performance\n', '90hz quad hd screen is awesome.Screen navigation is like buttery smoothSnapdragon 855 performing goodCharging speed is very good with wrap chargeCamera quality is good but not bestOverall very good flagship for this price range.\n', 'Great device! Great optimization of Oxygen OS with the hardware! Premium looks! Phone is heavy in hand! Camera is OK!  Wonderful screen of 90Hz! Ferrari like processor! Good battery life! Fast charging! Only worried about their after sales service,  heard that they charge heavy on hardware fault!\n', 'i started using this phone snice a week now, the product is really great, but the camera quality didnt meet my needs and expectations , and if we play games for 15mins or charge the phone its getting red hoti dono what is the problem behind it but my 6t was better\n', 'Undoubtedly, the best smart phone in the market. It can rival the iPhones and Galaxys . Very fast and very powerful phone. This is the best phone anybody can buy for this price. Go ahead , you shall be happy with your purchase decesion\n', "Decent Phone but just too expensive as the performance . Fingerprint doesn't recognize many times. Camera is okies .. pixel has way better camera quality . Battery life is also ok with the only + is the wrap charge\n", 'Camera quality will get better with upcomming updates I believe.Display is the best ever.One full charge will give you around 4-5 hrs of screen on time, if you are playing games and all. If not playing games more than 6 hrs of screen on time.\n', 'It is awesome.... Just order itValue for moneyBest fluid displayTouch is so smoothBest cameraWrap charger so fast\n', 'No durable screen guard available in the market. I have tried three-four but non of them sticks perfectly and looses sticking ability. So within three weeks gorilla glass got a scratch. Overall performance wise a class apart phone.\n', 'There is no good screen guard available.  3days without a screenguard and loads of scratches. I am putting a smaller screen guard to save it from scratches.wrote to oneplus but no response\n', 'Being an apple user finger print scanner doesn’t match what you get in an iPhone. The finger has to be placed exactly as how you set the finger scanner password. But overall the phone is great just the size a bit too big.\n', 'Very Good Performance, some improvements required in fingerprint reader.\n', 'Phone is heavy but once you start using it, you will be okay with that. Phone doesnot have 3.5mm audio jack and one plus does not provide ear phone with the mobile. So you have to spend extra bucks for earphone.Mobile usage is fast,fingerprint unclock is superb and also camera quality is good. Doulby sound is awsome, which makes one plus 7pro better device in case of sound.\n', 'A very bad phone, for the money that we pay ATleast if not new features the best could be a normal phone. but this phones hangs a lot... no need of parallel running processes it just hangs. it feels devastating to spend so much for a worthless phone. The warp charge is worse than dash charge. Dash charging works faster than this warp charge.\n', 'Good phone too by the way but display is amazing wish they had included earphone jack or atleast a dongle which is a cheap trick for money and the cover inlcuded is below average\n', 'phone is build to feel premium,screen is nothing like u hv ever seen before,with constant updates the ph and camera are more functional than ever.. one plus flagship of its own .so u know what u r getting...but p.s if you reading the reviews to buy it ...dont buy it.\n', "As OnePlus phones are always very innovative in their design but this time the phone is bit heavy also phone can't be used single handed also Screen Gaurd is not appropriate it comes with air inside it when I unbox the phone, finger print scanner is not that fast as physical scanner.Notification light which used to most important part of any smartphone in this budget is missing.\n", "It just gets u addicted. I mean I m a iPhone xs user but the smoothness n display.. Omg... U'll definitely fall for it.. Moreover it charges so fast n stays workable for a considerably longer time, just awesome. U gotta use it to kno it, that's all I gotta say.\n", "This phone is just good as you can ask for, it has everything to compete with galaxy s10 except for waterproof and wireless charge which i never use. Camera is fantastic in new update, the only thing i could have asked for was battery life( i doesn't mean battery is bad but its not also very good as compared to s10+ and huawei p30 pro).\n", 'Best in its class, could have been a little lighter\n', "Everything in the phone is superb but camera is not that great. It is great at daytime but average at night. Apart from that everything is great specially it's sound and no doubt above all it's screen...#oneplus_thereisalway_scopeofimprovment... Pls work on ur camera n upgrade through software upgrade to consider this device as flagship killer..\n", 'An absolute beast. Display top notch. 90hz refresh rate truly makes phone usage experience so great. Speed incredible. Battery also good. I would definitely recommend anyone looking for a premier phone.\n', "The best design and display on any smart phone in the world.One of the best in terms of performance.Oxygen OS is my favourite.Although not the best, cameras are pretty good for my purpose.Battery life could have been a little better but it's not bad.MRP could have been cheaper by about 5k.2x better than iphone 11 Pro Max overall at 0.5x the price.\n", 'Pros:(1) Awesome Screen experience(2)Dolby Atmos sound quality(3)Camera quality is very good,not bad at all,as described by a many(4) Super fast refresh rate(5) Super fast charging...gives enough juice for 2 days moderate useCons:(1)A tad bulky,not single hand user friendly(2)No type-c earphones provided(3)No Type-c to 3.5 adapter provided\n', 'Phone is very good but the seller is very bad including Amazon fisrt time when I booked my product got damage in transit again I had return the product n asked for replacement, even after replacement I had a got defective product where vibrate mood is not working and some functions are not workingI request Amazon to give us beat product as we trust youThank you\n', 'Screen support 90hz refresh rate because of which I bought phone but no game can be played at 90fps even though those games support 90fps. I asked same OnePlus but their reply is muted. Just whitelist the games for 90fps as soon as possible.\n', 'Nothing more to tell about this phone as it is the best premium smart phone, impressed by display, sound effects, camera, smoothness and much more...It even acts as perfect Gaming device, Am happy with it....!!!\n', 'Damn i love it!!Buttery smooth interface,top notch display quality and classy look. Battery life depends on you so dont blame it..wrap it up a little bit 😉\n', "Camera, battery, performance.. a complete budget flagship. But I got this product on amazon great indian sale with 10% offer. That time they publoshed its no cost EMI. but now I'm paying interest on each EMI. YES this SBI is a real fraud and cheater\n", 'superb phone..... i just love its fast charging thing and i made my mind to purchase 7pro after using one plus5t & i think my choice is right....thanks amazon for delivering in 2 days\n', 'awesome, best phone in the world right now, being an apple fanboy .,i can really say that thus phone can change your mind about android phonesgreat battery life, fingerprint reader is worlds fastest, camera quality is great\n', 'Pros: Not need ti specify as it is mentioned in so many placesCons:As OP 7 pro dont have audio jack still you will not get any headset or any headset connector(which we had in OP 6T) Overall phone is awesome.\n', "Worst service from AmazonBought this mobile and i got heating and battery draining issues i asked for replacement but worst service I've ever experienced just hated Amazon's costomer support and this will be my last order in Amazon\n", 'There was no sim ejector , is that not part of this product ?\n', "Have been iPhone user for ages, so initially found the It difficult. Phone looks premium and attractive. Configuration of the phone makes it value for money. Excellent picture quality. battery life is excellent and you don't have to charge your phone again and again , and for a long time\n", 'Pro :Refresh rateFastResolutionFrequent updatesCons:BatteryTele-focal camera\n', 'Amazing phone\n', "Guys don't believe in negative reviews. They probably don't value the device properly. Just go for it. Most premium phone ever and yes it's Oxygen OS runs through the tasks like a hot knife passing through butter. Before buying I never had an idea how fast it could be but now I'm experiencing the fastest phone in the market.\n", "It's one of the best android smartphones anyone can get at this price range. However, there are some flaws with the Camera as its quality is still not improved much specially for front camera even after the latest update.The fingerprint sensor, display as well as the battery life is impressive in terms of speed and long usage of phone respectively.\n", "It's a benchmark for other brands, One plus 7 pro has no cons.\n", 'All is best yet some improvement is needed in slow-mo and telescope lensElse is fineLoved it🤩🤩Really a flagship mobile.......\n', 'Finally I got OnePlus 7 pro, amazing phone,edge curve is super n battery also excellent,camera, overall marvelous pH by oneplus\n', 'Suddenly phone stucks into a grain screen shown in tha picture... after some time it comes normal..then again its shows one time...after I rebooted.\n', 'Some issue with the os. It hangs and crashes at times. Not able to uninstall any app from the homescreen yet. It gets stuck at times. While on call it automatically opens apps.\n', 'Great phone, it is beautiful and nebula blue colour is just awesome.Display is amazing and phone feels premium when you hold it.\n', "This phone enhances the limit for phone users. This is an amazing phone.Don't try this phone else you will start hating yours :)Only negative point - It's bit heavy.\n", 'i recently purchased a one plus 7 pro 12gb ram and 256gh storage spacel i have one problem. when ever i touch the power button the selfie camera comes out. is there any setting to be done  for the selfie camera or is that a fault in the phone. if there is a fault in the phone i  want to have it exchanged please advice immediately or call on 9967066845 thanks Khushroo\n', 'Battery is sufficient for whole day for normal users. Warp charging quite impressive. Camera Quality is good and hope oneplus team will improve its camera more by software updates.Nebula Blue color looks so great.\n', 'Fingerprint reader and camera apps are getting better with every update. The photos have great details but I wish they would put a little bit more work on the corner distortions in the wide angle shots. A secret wish: OP7P has the hardware and ability for HDMI out, why not implement a desktop mode officially\n', 'Upgrade from OnePlus 2 to OnePlus 7 Pro. Liked overall build quality and performance. Bettery life is just amazing. Camera quality is not so good in this price range. Big fan of OnePlus mobile.\n', 'Game leag mobile hang I m not happy for this mobile 😡😡😡\n', "Nothing to describe.....Fabulous deal.New to one plus family.Enjoying my experience.Worth buying if budget isn't a constraint.Bought it after checking the reviews.A justifiable purchase\n", "Everything is great except a few things.1. No headphone jack on the phone and no headphone adapter or earphones in the box.2. Phone is too huge to hold and it's also very slippery plus a fingerprint magnet.\n", 'Beautiful mobile I just love for this premium look.one plus never compromises for build quality.Except camera & batter everything u just love in this mobile\n', 'I like the screen and the 90 hz about this but it drains battery life . Then camera is almost amazing . Optical fingerprints scanner works really well\n', 'Superb design with edge displayNever before 90hz smooth displayHigh resolution 48mp camera with excellent picture quality.Fastest in display fingerprint sensor\n', 'Wow this phone was really awesome . Great gaming phone with excellent features . No gaming phone have this much features and build quality . Really alot of difference is there to oneplus6t and 7 pro dont think about other phones infront of oneplus 7 pro all other mobiles are useless . This is a king of all phones . Thanks to oneplus and amazon ..\n', "Finger print reader is the worst. Better to have given the older one plus 3 style reader. It doesn't recognises my finger prints most of the times\n", "Fingerprint sensor is too worst 😩😩 it takes 3 or 4 times to unlock  sometimes it won't unlock.. Camera quality is not upto mark. Worst experience 😭😭\n", "It's touch screen is not as good as One+6. It's not even three months, the microphone developed some problem. Other end people were not able to hear me properly.\n", 'One plus user since since 6 years ,till now awesome variant ,very smooth screen resolution 90hz is awesome and camera is super ,night mode is exceptionally awesome , no words for this product\n', 'Amazing Product , phone which can suit your every mood , finger print reader operates like a normal touch no additional efforts required , display is simply superb no words , camera quality is excellent and overall look and feel of product is simply marvelous ...\n', 'Great product. I switched from Apple to OnePlus and it feels such a breeze. I would recommend everyone looking to switch from Apple,this phone is great and has a very premium look and feel to it. Honestly this scores above new gen Apple models in all categories whether it is battery life, screen size and clarity etc. Juts go for it worth the price.\n', '\xa0I like display of this phone and dislike is more because I think I got difective product battery life is not good camera error few seconds and it hanged few times i will apply return or refund\n']